























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































=======

=======

























=====
=======
=======
ACT 5
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And, as I think, they have already order
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
Affront Ophelia.
And to the manner born, it is a custom


A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
And, after, we will both our judgments join

And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And, by opposing, end them. To die, to sleep--

=======
[A flourish of trumpets and two pieces goes off.]
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
And enterprises of great pitch and moment
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
And drive his purpose into these delights.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now,
And could of men distinguish, her election
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And thus the native hue of resolution
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
And there assume some other horrible form
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
And he beseeched me to entreat your Majesties
And with them words of so sweet breath composed
And hears it roar beneath.
Angels and ministers of grace, defend us!
As infinite as man may undergo,
And makes each petty arture in this body
And my imaginations are as foul
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And with a larger tether may he walk
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As in their birth (wherein they are not guilty,
As if it some impartment did desire
As made the things more rich. Their perfume
As one in suffering all that suffers nothing,
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
And pious action we do sugar o'er





































































































































































All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,












































]
=======
ALL  Gentlemen!
ALL  No, let's come in!
ALL  We will, we will.

A baseness to write fair, and labored much
About the world have times twelve thirties been
Adieu, adieu, adieu. Remember me.	[He exits.]
[A flourish for the Players.]
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
And shall I couple hell? O fie! Hold, hold, my heart,
And much offense, too. Touching this vision here,
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheen
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
	As by lot, God wot


























=====




=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
ACT 3
ALL  Armed, my lord.
ACT 1
ALL  My lord, from head to foot.
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up--
=====
=======
=====
=======
=======
=======
=======
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens;
AMBASSADOR  The sight is dismal,
All given to mine ear.
And I believe it is a fetch of wit.
According to the phrase or the addition
=======
=======
=======
=======
About, my brains!--Hum, I have heard
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins
And a most instant tetter barked about,
And, at our more considered time, we'll read,
And all we mourn for.
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
And can you by no drift of conference
All my smooth body.
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And each particular hair to stand an end,
And for the day confined to fast in fires
And how, and who, what means, and where they
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
=====
======================
ACT 2
ACT 4
A Captain in Fortinbras's army
ALL  Treason, treason!
ALL  We do, my lord.
  A Lord
A bloody deed--almost as bad, good mother,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
And prey on garbage.
And passion in the gods.
And that in way of caution), I must tell you
A damned defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Addicted so and so." And there put on him
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
"And, in part, him, but," you may say, "not well.
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
(As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As "Well, well, we know," or "We could an if we
As are companions noted and most known
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this?
ALL  Our duty to your Honor.
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
Affection, puh! You speak like a green girl
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And can say nothing--no, not for a king
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
And, in part, him." Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
As he is very potent with such spirits,
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As it behooves my daughter and your honor.
As may dishonor him, take heed of that,
Been struck so to the soul that presently
As thus: "I know his father and his friends
A stallion! Fie upon 't! Foh!
As the indifferent children of the earth.
Ay, so, good-bye to you.
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Before you visit him, to make inquire
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
But I am pigeon-livered and lack gall
But if 't be he I mean, he's very wild,
But if the gods themselves did see her then
But look where sadly the poor wretch comes
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
And here give up ourselves in the full bent
And he, repelled (a short tale to make),
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And sith so neighbored to his youth and havior,
And sure I am two men there is not living
And meant to wrack thee. But beshrew my jealousy!
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And to the last bended their light on me.
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And pity 'tis 'tis true--a foolish figure,
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a sudden vigor it doth posset
And, with his head over his shoulder turned,
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
Answer, and think upon this business.
Are joyfully returned.
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work,
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
As he would draw it. Long stayed he so.
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As low as to the fiends!
As fits a king's remembrance.
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
As it hath used to do, that I have found
(As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
As it is common for the younger sort
As of a man faithful and honorable.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As to expend your time with us awhile
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As oft as any passions under heaven
As 'twere a thing a little soiled i' th' working,
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
At "closes in the consequence"--ay, marry--
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Away, I do beseech you both, away.
Ay, "fashion" you may call it. Go to, go to!
Ay, thou poor ghost, whiles memory holds a seat
Be all my sins remembered.
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
Being nature's livery or fortune's star,
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Be ruled. You shall not go.
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
As therein are set down.
Believe so much in him that he is young,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Both to my God and to my gracious king,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
But as we often see against some storm
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
But, howsomever thou pursues this act,
But let that go.
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
But, better looked into, he truly found
But do not go with it.
But he's an arrant knave.
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
	   But never doubt I love.
But soft, methinks I scent the morning air.
But that the dread of something after death,
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
But keep a farm and carters.
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
But, to my mind, though I am native here
But truly I do fear it.
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
But with much forcing of his disposition.
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
But you'll be secret?
But this eternal blazon must not be
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
By indirections find directions out.
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion
But who, ah woe, had seen the mobled queen--
By this encompassment and drift of question
Capitol. Brutus killed me.
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Christian, pagan, nor man, have so strutted and
Come.
Come, come, deal justly with me. Come, come; nay,
Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
Come hither, gentlemen,
Come on, you hear this fellow in the cellarage.
Cut off, even in the blossoms of my sin,
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Elsinore?
Confound the ignorant and amaze indeed
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Denmark, and those that would make mouths at
Devoutly to be wished. To die, to sleep--
Do not, my lord.
	   Doubt that the sun doth move,
	Doubt thou the stars are fire,
Did nothing.
Do not believe his vows, for they are brokers,
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Doomed for a certain term to walk the night
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
	Doubt truth to be a liar,
Do you believe his "tenders," as you call them?
Consent to swear.
Earth, seems to me a sterile promontory; this most
[Enter Ambassadors Voltemand and Cornelius with
[Enter Ghost.]
[Enter Guildenstern and Rosencrantz.]
Even with the very comment of thy soul
[Enter Hamlet.]
[Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.]
[Enter Polonius.]
FIRST PLAYER
FIRST PLAYER  What speech, my good lord?
[Enter Ghost and Hamlet.]
[Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.]
[Enter Hamlet reading on a book.]
[Enter Horatio and Marcellus.]
[Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
[Enter Ophelia.]
[Enter Polonius.]
[Enter Trumpets and Kettle Drums. Enter King, Queen,
[Enter a King and a Queen, very lovingly, the Queen
[Enter Horatio.]
[Enter Prologue.]
[Enter the Player King and Queen.]
[Enter old Polonius with his man Reynaldo.]
FIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord.
[Enter Polonius, Guildenstern, and Rosencrantz.]
[Enter the Players.]
Even in their promise as it is a-making,
FIRST PLAYER  Anon he finds him
FIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord.
FIRST PLAYER
Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee.
Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Farewell.	[Reynaldo exits.]
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
[Flourish. Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and
(For every man hath business and desire,
For Hecuba!
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
Absent thee from felicity awhile
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
A combination and a form indeed
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Acts little of his will.--Tell me, Laertes,
A double blessing is a double grace.
A face without a heart?
Alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole?
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
After the thing it loves.
Against the which a moiety competent
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen tonight!
	   Alack and fie for shame,
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answered?
[All but Hamlet and Horatio exit.]
A little more than kin and less than kind.
[All but Hamlet exit.]
[All but Hamlet exit.]
[All but the King exit.]
[All but Hamlet exit.]
	All flaxen was his poll.
All from her father's death, and now behold!
	   All in the morning betime,
And England, if my love thou hold'st at aught
Among a mineral of metals base,
	And I a maid at your window,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And bear it to the chapel.
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
[A march afar off and shot within.]
Ambassadors to Denmark from England
And a man's life's no more than to say "one."
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
All may be well.	[He kneels.]
And I am sick at heart.
And I the matter will reword, which madness
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
And I with them the third night kept the watch,
And, as my love is sized, my fear is so:
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
And, as you said (and wisely was it said),
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And break your own neck down.
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And batten on this moor? Ha! Have you eyes?
And do such bitter business as the day
And convey is assistant, do not sleep,
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And he to England shall along with you.
And either ... the devil or throw him out
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven.
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses
And, in the morn and liquid dew of youth,
And, like a man to double business bound,
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
And never come mischance between us twain.
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And now I'll do 't.	[He draws his sword.]
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And reason panders will.
And recks not his own rede.
And put it in his pocket--
And sets a blister there, makes marriage vows
And live the purer with the other half!
And these few precepts in thy memory
And so he goes to heaven,
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try
And women's fear and love hold quantity,
And you are stayed for. There, my blessing with
And so am I revenged. That would be scanned:
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
Armed, say you?
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage,
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
As kill a king?
As kill a king and marry with his brother.
Assume a virtue if you have it not.
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
A villain kills my father, and for that,
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But woe is me! You are so sick of late,
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe.
But, orderly to end where I begun:
Denmark?
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And that your Grace hath screened and stood
And they in France of the best rank and station
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And we did think it writ down in our duty
An eye like Mars' to threaten and command,
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
Are mortised and adjoined, which, when it falls,
A second time I kill my husband dead
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face does glow
As I do live, my honored lord, 'tis true.
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay.
As false as dicers' oaths--O, such a deed
As from the body of contraction plucks
[Aside.] They fool me to the top of my bent.--I will
And whatsomever else shall hap tonight,
A sable silvered.
A station like the herald Mercury
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
At game, a-swearing, or about some act
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
BARNARDO/MARCELLUS  Longer, longer.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Bow, stubborn knees, and heart with strings of steel
But fall unshaken when they mellow be.
But in our circumstance and course of thought
And that his soul may be as damned and black
Bear 't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
But is there no sequel at the heels of this
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know,
But not expressed in fancy (rich, not gaudy),
By their oppressed and fear-surprised eyes
But what we do determine oft we break.
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge.
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must.
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
And there I see such black and grained spots
And vanished from our sight.
And, when you are desirous to be blest,
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
And with th' incorporal air do hold discourse?
And tell you what I know.
As he in his particular act and place
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
As will not leave their tinct.
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
Be wary, then; best safety lies in fear.
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But it reserved some quantity of choice
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Can serve my turn? "Forgive me my foul murder"?
[Claudius rises.]
[Enter Ghost.]
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Confederate season, else no creature seeing,
Did you not speak to it?
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
[Enter Polonius.]
For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favor,
	For if the King like not the comedy,
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep,
Appears before them and with solemn march
Come, some music!
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Buys out the law. But 'tis not so above:
[Enter Hamlet.]
[Enter Queen and Polonius.]
[Enter Hamlet.]
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
[Enter the Players with recorders.]
Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too.
Fixed on the summit of the highest mount,
[Enter Laertes and Ophelia, his sister.]
For he himself is subject to his birth.
For, in the fatness of these pursy times,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
Form of the thing (each word made true and good),
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
For out o' doors he went without their helps
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
	   A very very--pajock.
But to confront the visage of offense?
Call me what instrument you will, though you can
But let me hear from you.
Could not so mope. O shame, where is thy blush?
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
[Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.]
[Enter Polonius.]
[Enter Polonius.]
Fear it, Ophelia; fear it, my dear sister,
For husband shalt thou--
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
	For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For we will fetters put about this fear,
	For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
From fashion of himself. What think you on 't?
From our achievements, though performed at
From that particular fault. The dram of evil
GUILDENSTERN  But these cannot I command to any
GUILDENSTERN  Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not
For use almost can change the stamp of nature
GUILDENSTERN  The Queen your mother, in most great
GUILDENSTERN  We will ourselves provide.
[Ghost exits.]
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
God bless you, sir.
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together,
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.
"Good sir," or so, or "friend," or "gentleman,"
HAMLET
Good night. But go not to my uncle's bed.
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Ay, marry, is 't,
[Enter Lucianus.]
HAMLET
HAMLET  Bid the players make haste.	[Polonius exits.]
HAMLET  A whole one, I.
HAMLET  Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to
HAMLET  Do you see nothing there?
HAMLET  Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in
HAMLET  Do you think I meant country matters?
HAMLET  Ecstasy?
HAMLET  Between who?
HAMLET  Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
HAMLET  For if the sun breed maggots in a dead
HAMLET  I mean, my head upon your lap?
HAMLET  Into my grave?
HAMLET  Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a
HAMLET  It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages
HAMLET  Nor did you nothing hear?
HAMLET  Nothing.
HAMLET  O God, your only jig-maker. What should a
HAMLET  Be not too tame neither, but let your own
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For this effect defective comes by cause.
Fortune that she sends you to prison hither?
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For what advancement may I hope from thee
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
For your desire to know what is between us,
GHOST  Do not forget. This visitation
	For us and for our tragedy,
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear.
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear.
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear by his sword.
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word
GUILDENSTERN  I know no touch of it, my lord.
GUILDENSTERN  In what, my dear lord?
GUILDENSTERN  My honored lord.
GUILDENSTERN  Prison, my lord?
GUILDENSTERN  There are the players.
Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
[Ghost beckons.]
Given private time to you, and you yourself
GUILDENSTERN  O, there has been much throwing
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN  But we both obey,
GUILDENSTERN  Faith, her privates we.
GUILDENSTERN  Is in his retirement marvelous
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, put your discourse into
GUILDENSTERN  My lord, we were sent for.
GUILDENSTERN  No, my lord, with choler.
GUILDENSTERN  O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN  My lord, I cannot.
GUILDENSTERN  The King, sir--
GUILDENSTERN  What should we say, my lord?
Get you a place.
GUILDENSTERN  Which dreams, indeed, are ambition,
Gives him three-score thousand crowns in annual
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walked
Good my lord, tell it.
Go to your rest. At night we'll feast together.
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
Give me one poor request.
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  A dream itself is but a shadow.
HAMLET  Ay, truly, for the power of beauty will sooner
HAMLET  Ah ha! Come, some music! Come, the
HAMLET  Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks;
HAMLET  Do they hold the same estimation they did
HAMLET  A king of shreds and patches--
HAMLET  Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
HAMLET  Anything but to th' purpose. You were sent
HAMLET  Ay, or any show that you will show him. Be
HAMLET  Ay, sir, what of him?
HAMLET  A murderer and a villain,
HAMLET  But where was this?
HAMLET  Buzz, buzz.
HAMLET  Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore.
HAMLET  Get thee to a nunnery. Why wouldst thou be
HAMLET  A goodly one, in which there are many confines,
HAMLET  Are you fair?
HAMLET  "By and by" is easily said. Leave me,
HAMLET  Denmark's a prison.
HAMLET  Do the boys carry it away?
HAMLET  Ha, ha, are you honest?
HAMLET  Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too--at
HAMLET  He poisons him i' th' garden for his estate. His
HAMLET  How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
HAMLET  Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come!
HAMLET  He that plays the king shall be welcome--his
HAMLET  How chances it they travel? Their residence,
HAMLET  I am but mad north-north-west. When the
HAMLET  How is it with you, lady?
HAMLET  I could interpret between you and your love,
HAMLET  I have heard of your paintings too, well
HAMLET  I humbly thank you, well.
HAMLET  Indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
HAMLET  Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
HAMLET  I am tame, sir. Pronounce.
HAMLET  Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
HAMLET  Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs
HAMLET  You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I
HAMLET  If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague
HAMLET  No such matter. I will not sort you with the
HORATIO  Look, my lord, it comes.
HORATIO  I did very well note him.
Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? Art thou there,
HORATIO  Propose the oath, my lord.
Haply the seas, and countries different,
He closes thus: "I know the gentleman.
[He reads the letter.]
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
How now, my lord, will the King hear this piece of
GUILDENSTERN  Believe me, I cannot.
HAMLET  I do beseech you.
HAMLET  I do not well understand that. Will you play
HAMLET  In the secret parts of Fortune? O, most true!
HAMLET  I pray you.
HAMLET  Make you a wholesome answer. My wit's
HAMLET  Then you live about her waist, or in the
HAMLET  What ho, Horatio!
HORATIO  Very well, my lord.
Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
HAMLET  Marry, this is miching mallecho. It means
HAMLET  My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
HAMLET  O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for
HAMLET  Then is doomsday near. But your news is not
HAMLET  What, frighted with false fire?
HAMLET  Nor the soles of her shoe?
Happy in that we are not overhappy.
HORATIO
His form and cause conjoined, preaching to stones,
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
How strange or odd some'er I bear myself
HAMLET  O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and
HAMLET, [aside]  These tedious old fools.
Hamlet.
Hath given me this. Now gather and surmise.
Have of your audience been most free and
HORATIO  Is it a custom?
I do repent; but heaven hath pleased it so
[He reads.] To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
I have a daughter (have while she is mine)
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord
HAMLET  Upon the talk of the poisoning?
HAMLET  Why, then, 'tis none to you, for there is
I have in quick determination
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
In her excellent white bosom, these, etc.--
I saw him yesterday," or "th' other day"
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
It hath the primal eldest curse upon 't,
It shall do well. But yet do I believe
I will bestow him and will answer well
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I will take my leave of you.
KING  How fares our cousin Hamlet?
KING  Thanks, dear my lord.
KING, [advancing with Polonius]
"King," "Father," "Royal Dane." O, answer me!
LAERTES  O, fear me not.
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
LAERTES
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Like sweet bells jangled, out of time and harsh;
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels;
Love? His affections do not that way tend;
MARCELLUS
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Mad let us grant him then, and now remains
Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations.
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
More honored in the breach than the observance.
GHOST [cries under the stage]  Swear.
HAMLET  Is 't possible?
HAMLET  It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of
HAMLET  It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a
HAMLET  I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
HAMLET  It would cost you a groaning to take off mine
HAMLET  Let the doors be shut upon him that he may
HAMLET  Nay, that follows not.
HAMLET  No, you will reveal it.
HAMLET  O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure
HAMLET  Sir, I cannot.
HAMLET  O, wonderful!
HAMLET  Sir, a whole history.
HAMLET  Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here
HAMLET  So you mis-take your husbands.--Begin,
HAMLET  I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the
HAMLET  My lord, I have news to tell you: when Roscius
HAMLET  Or like a whale.
HAMLET  That you must teach me. But let me conjure
HAMLET  Well, God-a-mercy.
HAMLET  Nay, but swear 't.
HAMLET  Such an act
HAMLET  What did you enact?
HAMLET  What hour now?
HAMLET  Who, I?
HAMLET  Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing
HAMLET  Why, right, you are in the right.
HAMLET  Why, what should be the fear?
HAMLET  You are welcome.
HORATIO
HAMLET, [aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If
HAMLET  Methinks it is like a weasel.
HAMLET  Nay, but to live
HAMLET  No, good mother. Here's metal more
HAMLET  No, nor mine now. [To Polonius.] My lord, you
HAMLET  O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
HAMLET  So be it.
HAMLET  O wonderful son that can so 'stonish a mother!
HAMLET  Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced
HAMLET  Then I will come to my mother by and by.
HAMLET  That if you be honest and fair, your honesty
HAMLET  Then I would you were so honest a man.
HAMLET  That's a fair thought to lie between maids'
HAMLET  They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
HAMLET  What, are they children? Who maintains 'em?
HAMLET  Then came each actor on his ass.
HAMLET  'Tis very strange.
HAMLET  We shall know by this fellow. The players
HAMLET  Why,
HAMLET  So long? Nay, then, let the devil wear black,
HAMLET  Why did you laugh, then, when I said "man
HAMLET  Nay, do not think I flatter,
HAMLET  With drink, sir?
HAMLET  Words, words, words.
HAMLET  Your wisdom should show itself more richer
HORATIO
HORATIO
HAMLET  You should not have believed me, for virtue
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  Half a share.
He took me by the wrist and held me hard.
HORATIO
He likewise gives a frock or livery
If I had played the desk or table-book
Heavens make our presence and our practices
HORATIO  I think it lacks of twelve.
HORATIO/MARCELLUS   Ay, by heaven, my lord.
HORATIO  In faith, my lord, not I.
HORATIO/MARCELLUS   My lord, we will not.
HORATIO  Here, sweet lord, at your service.
HORATIO  My lord, I did,
HORATIO  There's no offense, my lord.
HORATIO  What is 't, my lord? We will.
HORATIO  Well, my lord.
HORATIO  What news, my lord?
HORATIO  My lord, my lord!
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
He closes with you in this consequence:
[He exits.]
	Here stooping to your clemency,
Have you so slander any moment leisure
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
Herod. Pray you, avoid it.
He seemed to find his way without his eyes,
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
HORATIO  You might have rhymed.
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blessed are those
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws
Hath sealed thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hath there been such a time (I would fain know
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulcher,
Hazard so near 's as doth hourly grow
[He exits.]
[He gives a paper.]
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Here in the lobby.
Here is your husband, like a mildewed ear
[He writes.]
He falls to such perusal of my face
His virtues else, be they as pure as grace,
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing
"I saw him enter such a house of sale"--
How does your Honor for this many a day?
If with too credent ear you list his songs
I'll visit you.
How in my words somever she be shent,
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep
Is it your own inclining? Is it a free visitation?
I stand in pause where I shall first begin
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
I must be cruel only to be kind.
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
If you have hitherto concealed this sight,
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
KING  But how hath she received his love?
LAERTES
If it be so (as so 'tis put on me,
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It lifted up its head and did address
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
KING
KING
KING  Give me some light. Away!
KING  It shall be so.
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
Is very cunning in.
King and Queen molt no feather. I have of late, but
Let his queen-mother all alone entreat him
HORATIO  No, by no means.
His nephew's levies, which to him appeared
How is 't, my noble lord?
How are they escoted? Will they pursue the quality
How now, Ophelia, what's the matter?
How say you, then? Would heart of man once think
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Hyperion's curls, the front of Jove himself,
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
I do not set my life at a pin's fee.
If circumstances lead me, I will find
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
I doubt it is no other but the main--
If damned custom have not brazed it so
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven,
I will requite your loves. So fare you well.
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
KING  Not that I know.
KING  We will try it.
KING
KING, [to Queen]  Do you think 'tis this?
KING  How may we try it further?
[King and Queen exit with Attendants.]
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
Into the madness wherein now he raves
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
"Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
Let me be no assistant for a state,
MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord, in faith.
Madness in great ones must not unwatched go.
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Mark you, your party in converse, him you would
"Mad" call I it, for, to define true madness,
MARCELLUS  We have sworn, my lord, already.
Marry, I will teach you. Think yourself a baby
Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Most holy and religious fear it is
My father, in his habit as he lived!
HORATIO  Heavens secure him!
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
In noise so rude against me?
In the corrupted currents of this world,
In censure of his seeming.
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
I have sworn 't.
I pray you now receive them.
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
Is thought-sick at the act.
It is an honest ghost--that let me tell you.
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
It is "adieu, adieu, remember me."
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It will not speak. Then I will follow it.
I will go pray.
KING
KING
KING  I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These
KING  It likes us well,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part,
Indeed, I heard it not. It then draws near the season
In his true nature, and we ourselves compelled,
In honorable fashion--
It beckons you to go away with it
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
KING
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
KING
It was against your Highness. Whereat, grieved
It is a nipping and an eager air.
LUCIANUS
LAERTES  Think it no more.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural.
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed,
Look here upon this picture and on this,
Look to 't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Is apoplexed; for madness would not err,
KING
LAERTES  Farewell.	[Laertes exits.]
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced,
Lords attendant with the King's guard carrying
MARCELLUS  Look with what courteous action
MARCELLUS  No, it is struck.
MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord.
MARCELLUS
Mad for thy love?
Make you to ravel all this matter out
May give his saying deed, which is no further
Makes vow before his uncle never more
May one be pardoned and retain th' offense?
MARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Majesty shall have tribute on me. The adventurous
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Meantime, we thank you for your well-took labor.
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Most welcome home!
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
My father's spirit--in arms! All is not well.
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
MARCELLUS  Lord Hamlet.
My honored lord, you know right well you did,
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
My lord, I have.
My lord, I have remembrances of yours
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
My lord, upon the platform where we watch.
My necessaries are embarked. Farewell.
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
And (would it were not so) you are my mother.
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For women fear too much, even as they love,
From me, whose love was of that dignity
GHOST
GHOST
GHOST  I find thee apt;
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
GHOST
[Ghost and Hamlet exit.]
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
GHOST
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
GHOST
GHOST  My hour is almost come
GUILDENSTERN
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
GUILDENSTERN
Gonzago is the duke's name, his wife Baptista. You
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel,
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove
GHOST  I am thy father's spirit,
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
GHOST
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice.
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Guildenstern, and Lords.]
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Alas, poor ghost!
HAMLET  And do still, by these pickers and stealers.
HAMLET  And fixed his eyes upon you?
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it was my word.
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Ay, sir, but "While the grass grows"--the
HAMLET  If she should break it now!
HAMLET  His beard was grizzled, no?
HAMLET  I would I had been there.
HAMLET  It shall to the barber's with your beard.--
HAMLET  Madam, how like you this play?
HAMLET  O, my prophetic soul! My uncle!
HAMLET  O, but she'll keep her word.
HAMLET  From top to toe?
HAMLET  God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every
HAMLET  Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play
HAMLET  Hold off your hands.
HAMLET  Murder?
HAMLET  Now, mother, what's the matter?
HAMLET  "The mobled queen"?
HAMLET  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of
HAMLET  We shall obey, were she ten times our mother.
HAMLET  Very like. Stayed it long?
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
HAMLET  We'll ha 't tomorrow night. You could, for a
HAMLET  Very well. Follow that lord--and look you
HAMLET  What's the matter now?
HAMLET, [within]  Mother, mother, mother!
HORATIO
Mother, you have my father much offended.
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  It would have much amazed you.
Haste me to know 't, that I, with wings as swift
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
[He pulls Polonius' body from behind the arras.]
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
Have you forgot me?
How smart a lash that speech doth give my
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
I hear him coming.
I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to Elsinore.
In neither aught, or in extremity.
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
Is by a forged process of my death
	It came to pass, as most like it was--
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
It waves me still.--Go on, I'll follow thee.
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
KING  Have you heard the argument? Is there no
KING, [aside]  O, 'tis too true!
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Make mad the guilty and appall the free,
Most constantly.
Murder most foul, as in the best it is,
My custom always of the afternoon,
Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Not when I saw 't.
Now I am alone.
Now is he total gules, horridly tricked
MARCELLUS
May sweep to my revenge.
Now wears his crown.
Now might I do it pat, now he is a-praying,
O Hamlet, what a falling off was there!
O all you host of heaven! O Earth! What else?
Of each new-hatched, unfledged courage. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel, but, being in,
O heavy burden!
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
HAMLET  I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it
HAMLET  I will.
HAMLET  Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
HAMLET  No, by the rood, not so.
HAMLET  Pale or red?
HAMLET  My fate cries out
HAMLET  No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest. No
HAMLET  O God!
HAMLET  Sir, I lack advancement.
HAMLET  I will watch tonight.
HAMLET  That's wormwood!
HAMLET  Then saw you not his face?
HAMLET  "The Mousetrap." Marry, how? Tropically.
HAMLET  What?
HAMLET  What, looked he frowningly?
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
Hath now this dread and black complexion smeared
[Hamlet exits.]
HORATIO
HORATIO  I warrant it will.
Ha! 'Swounds, I should take it! For it cannot be
Have after. To what issue will this come?
Have you any further trade with us?
Heaven will direct it.
He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Have, by the very cunning of the scene,
[He exits.]
HAMLET  Speak. I am bound to hear.
Help, ho!
His greatness weighed, his will is not his own,
How now, a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
In general synod take away her power,
[He kills Polonius by thrusting a rapier
KING
[He exits.]
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I'll tent him to the quick. If he do blench,
KING  What do you call the play?
KING, [rising]
Like quills upon the fearful porpentine.
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their
May be a devil, and the devil hath power
HORATIO
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
He waxes desperate with imagination.
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Honored, beloved; and haply one as kind
I do believe you think what now you speak,
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
If 't be th' affliction of his love or no
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
I'll wipe away all trivial, fond records,
I say, away!--Go on. I'll follow thee.
[He sheathes his sword.]
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
In second husband let me be accurst.
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife.
KING
KING  Sweet Gertrude, leave us too,
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
I should have fatted all the region kites
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
It was as I have seen it in his life,
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS  Nay, let's follow him.
MARCELLUS
Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Mark me.
Most free in his reply.
Hold you the watch tonight?
More relative than this. The play's the thing
Nay, very pale.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be,
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
Meet what I would have well and it destroy.
Niggard of question, but of our demands
No more--and by a sleep to say we end
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
O, I am slain!
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
OPHELIA  Madam, I wish it may.
Of his true state.
Of reverend Priam, seemed i' th' air to stick.
Of violent birth, but poor validity,
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Must give us pause. There's the respect
Must render up myself.
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words
My words fly up, my thoughts remain below;
No.
Nor Earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
No reck'ning made, but sent to my account
None wed the second but who killed the first.
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know,
Now falls on Priam.
O horrible, O horrible, most horrible!
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Old grandsire Priam seeks.
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
O most pernicious woman!
On Mars's armor, forged for proof eterne,
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed,
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Of life, of crown, of queen at once dispatched,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver up.
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
PLAYER KING
PLAYER KING
O vengeance!
PLAYER QUEEN
PLAYER KING
PLAYER QUEEN
PLAYER QUEEN
PLAYER QUEEN  Sleep rock thy brain,
PLAYER QUEEN  O, confound the rest!
POLONIUS  Come, sirs.
Ophelia, walk you here.--Gracious, so please you,
HAMLET  Why,
If it assume my noble father's person,
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites:
LAERTES
My tables--meet it is I set it down
LAERTES
Nay, come, let's go together.
My too much changed son.--Go, some of you,
Never make known what you have seen tonight.
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill,
No hat upon his head, his stockings fouled,
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp
HAMLET  Is this a prologue or the posy of a ring?
No more.
No, not I. I never gave you aught.
No more, sweet Hamlet!
Nor what he spake, though it lacked form a little,
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thralled,
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
No traveler returns, puzzles the will
HAMLET  As woman's love.
Never to speak of this that you have heard.
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  At home, my lord.
OPHELIA  Belike this show imports the argument of the
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  Heavenly powers, restore him!
OPHELIA  'Tis brief, my lord.
OPHELIA  What means this, my lord?
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange.
O, my offense is rank, it smells to heaven;
OPHELIA  O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
OPHELIA  Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce
OPHELIA  Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares.
OPHELIA  No more but so?
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
O, say!
O, step between her and her fighting soul.
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  I was the more deceived.
OPHELIA  What means your Lordship?
OPHELIA  You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
OPHELIA  You are naught, you are naught. I'll mark the
On Fortune's cap, we are not the very button.
Or pardoned being down? Then I'll look up.
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
O, the recorders! Let me see one. [He takes a
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
PLAYER KING
POLONIUS  'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good
OPHELIA  Good my lord,
Offense's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings,
	One fair daughter, and no more,
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
POLONIUS  If you call me "Jephthah," my lord: I have a
POLONIUS  Look whe'er he has not turned his color and
POLONIUS  My lord, I will use them according to their
POLONIUS  That's good. "Mobled queen" is good.
POLONIUS  The best actors in the world, either for
POLONIUS  This is too long.
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  My lord?
OPHELIA  Still better and worse.
OPHELIA  The King rises.
OPHELIA  'Tis in my memory locked,
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Over the nasty sty!
O'er this solidity and compound mass
POLONIUS
Of those effects for which I did the murder:
OPHELIA  Will he tell us what this show meant?
OPHELIA  You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
POLONIUS  My lord, I have news to tell you.
POLONIUS  The actors are come hither, my lord.
POLONIUS  Well be with you, gentlemen.
POLONIUS  What follows then, my lord?
POLONIUS  Upon my honor--
POLONIUS, [aside]  Still on my daughter.
POLONIUS  What a treasure had he, my lord?
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty,
[Player Queen exits.]
[Polonius exits.]
[Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Pray you, be round with him.
Prithee say on. He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or
[Pours the poison in his ears.]
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Not this by no means that I bid you do:
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  I shall obey, my lord.
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  Ay, my lord.
OPHELIA  Do you doubt that?
OPHELIA  I think nothing, my lord.
OPHELIA  No, my lord.
OPHELIA  What is, my lord?
OPHELIA  Ay, my lord.
Observe his inclination in yourself.
OPHELIA  You are merry, my lord.
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood,
O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers. I have not
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
	Of Jove himself, and now reigns here
(Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason),
Of general assault.
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
OPHELIA  My lord, I do not know,
O, my dear lord--
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
On Fortinbras, which he, in brief, obeys,
On such regards of safety and allowance
One word more, good lady.
Or "If we list to speak," or "There be an if they
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Or paddling in your neck with his damned fingers,
Or, rather say, the cause of this defect,
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
Of his behavior.
Of man and country--
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or looked upon this love with idle sight?
Or lose your heart or your chaste treasure open
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Or such ambiguous giving-out, to note
O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
(Or then, or then, with such or such), "and as you
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out of his brows.
PLAYER  I hope we have reformed that indifferently
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain!
Of his affection to me.
O, throw away the worser part of it,
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
PLAYER  I warrant your Honor.
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  Fare you well, my lord.
POLONIUS  Indeed, that's out of the air. [Aside.] How
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
QUEEN
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  Do you know me, my lord?
POLONIUS  Give o'er the play.
POLONIUS  Honest, my lord?
POLONIUS, [aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is
POLONIUS  What is the matter, my lord?
Priam's slaughter. If it live in your memory, begin at
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  I mean the matter that you read, my lord.
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN  How fares my lord?
QUEEN  No, nothing but ourselves.
QUEEN  To whom do you speak this?
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  Lights, lights, lights!
POLONIUS  That's very true, my lord.
POLONIUS  I have, my lord.
POLONIUS  Not I, my lord.
POLONIUS, [aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on
REYNALDO  Ay, very well, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord.
REYNALDO  I will, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  My most dear lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  What, my lord?
REYNALDO  My lord, I did intend it.
ROSENCRANTZ, [to Polonius]  God save you, sir.
OPHELIA  Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
POLONIUS  And then, sir, does he this, he does--what
POLONIUS  God be wi' you. Fare you well.
POLONIUS  What do you think of me?
POLONIUS  And let him ply his music.
POLONIUS  Marry, sir, here's my drift,
POLONIUS  What said he?
POLONIUS  Wherefore should you do this?
POLONIUS  Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing,
POLONIUS  This business is well ended.
POLONIUS  With what, i' th' name of God?
POLONIUS, [behind the arras]  What ho! Help!
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Perpend.
Pinch wanton on your cheek, call you his mouse,
Polonius.]
POLONIUS, [behind the arras]
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
[Polonius exits.]
Put your dread pleasures more into command
QUEEN
QUEEN  Alas, he's mad.
QUEEN  The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
[Pointing to Polonius.]
QUEEN
QUEEN
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN  It may be, very like.
REYNALDO  But, my good lord--
REYNALDO  Very good, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  None, my lord, but that the world's
Pleasant and helpful to him!
QUEEN
QUEEN  Came this from Hamlet to her?
ROSENCRANTZ  Then is the world one.
QUEEN  Alas, how is 't with you,
ROSENCRANTZ/GUILDENSTERN  We'll wait upon you.
REYNALDO  Ay, my lord, I would know that.
ROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lord, no other occasion.
ROSENCRANTZ  Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy
ROSENCRANTZ  We think not so, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  Why, then, your ambition makes it one.
Repugnant to command. Unequal matched,
Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Shall we to th' court? For, by my fay, I cannot
REYNALDO  At "closes in the consequence," at "friend,
QUEEN  Ay, amen!
QUEEN  Ay me, what act
QUEEN  I'll warrant you. Fear me not. Withdraw,
QUEEN  O Hamlet, speak no more!
QUEEN  O me, what hast thou done?
QUEEN  No more!
QUEEN  O, speak to me no more!
QUEEN  More matter with less art.
QUEEN  What shall I do?
Quarreling, drabbing--you may go so far.
REYNALDO  As gaming, my lord.
QUEEN  So he does indeed.
REYNALDO
REYNALDO  I shall, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ
REYNALDO  Good my lord.
REYNALDO  My lord, that would dishonor him.
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you once did love me.
ROSENCRANTZ  She desires to speak with you in her
ROSENCRANTZ  To what end, my lord?
ROSENCRANTZ, [to Guildenstern]  What say you?
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
So by my former lecture and advice
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
She is a strumpet. What news?
So levied as before, against the Polack,
ROSENCRANTZ  Neither, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  Even those you were wont to take such
ROSENCRANTZ  Both your Majesties
ROSENCRANTZ  Faith, there has been much to-do on
ROSENCRANTZ  Haply he is the second time come to
ROSENCRANTZ  I think their inhibition comes by the
ROSENCRANTZ  Nay, their endeavor keeps in the wonted
ROSENCRANTZ  No, indeed are they not.
ROSENCRANTZ  Then thus she says: your behavior hath
REYNALDO  Well, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, there was no such stuff in my
ROSENCRANTZ  To think, my lord, if you delight not in
Rankly abused. But know, thou noble youth,
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, that they do, my lord--Hercules
'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural,
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit.]
So, lust, though to a radiant angel linked,
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Rebellious hell,
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit.--So, gentlemen,
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit
Repent what's past, avoid what is to come,
See what a grace was seated on this brow,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you.
So as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood
So, proceed you.
Such as it is), and for my own poor part,
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Stewed in corruption, honeying and making love
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Swear by my sword
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word.
Swear by my sword.
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take this from this, if this be otherwise.
Scene 1
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo, his sword,
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him,
HAMLET  Excellent, i' faith, of the chameleon's dish. I
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  I did enact Julius Caesar. I was killed i' th'
POLONIUS  I will say so.
POLONIUS  Marry, well bethought.
POLONIUS  My lord, the Queen would speak with you,
POLONIUS  That did I, my lord, and was accounted a
POLONIUS  Very like a whale.
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Perchance 'twill walk again.
[Players exit.]
Play something like the murder of my father
Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and other
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
[Polonius exits.]
QUEEN  Did he receive you well?
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS, [to the King]  Oh, ho! Do you mark that?
POLONIUS  By th' Mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
PROLOGUE
QUEEN  Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
QUEEN  Did you assay him to any pastime?
POLONIUS  And the Queen too, and that presently.
POLONIUS  It is backed like a weasel.
POLONIUS  'Tis most true,
[Players exit.]
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
[Queen exits.]
ROSENCRANTZ
QUEEN  I shall obey you.
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord.	[They exit.]
ROSENCRANTZ  Most like a gentleman.
ROSENCRANTZ
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless
ROSENCRANTZ  How can that be, when you have the
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
Say, why is this? Wherefore? What should we do?
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord. They stay upon your
ROSENCRANTZ  We will haste us.
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit.]
Scene 3
Scene 4
Scene 3
Scene 4
Scene 5
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Scene 1
Scene 2
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since nature cannot choose his origin),
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come.
Than your particular demands will touch it.
Sprung from neglected love.--How now, Ophelia?
That I have positively said "'Tis so,"
That I have uttered. Bring me to the test,
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee "Hamlet,"
That ever I was born to set it right!
POLONIUS
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
So far from cheer and from your former state,
So please you, something touching the Lord
So think thou wilt no second husband wed,
[Sound a flourish.]
Still am I called. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Soil our addition. And, indeed, it takes
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
So oft it chances in particular men
Tears in his eyes, distraction in his aspect,
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps,
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
So horridly to shake our disposition
Take these again, for to the noble mind
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Than to entreaty.
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
Than a command to parle. For Lord Hamlet,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I have longed long to redeliver.
That I, the son of a dear father murdered,
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That aptly is put on. Refrain tonight,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That cannot be, since I am still possessed
That it be proof and bulwark against sense.
That flesh is heir to--'tis a consummation
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
That makes calamity of so long life.
That one may smile and smile and be a villain.
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
That we find out the cause of this effect,
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; "beautified" is a
That youth and observation copied there,
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The fair Ophelia.--Nymph, in thy orisons
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That from her working all his visage wanned,
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That he is open to incontinency;
That he should weep for her? What would he do
That he's mad, 'tis true; 'tis true 'tis pity,
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That show of such an exercise may color
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That sucked the honey of his musicked vows,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambition
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
That thus hath cozened you at hoodman-blind?
That thus he suffers for.
That to the use of actions fair and good
That unmatched form and stature of blown youth
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The better to beguile. This is for all:
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
That your good beauties be the happy cause
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
The devil himself.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you know aught of me--this do swear,
The King doth wake tonight and takes his rouse,
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
The apparition comes. I knew your father;
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The glass of fashion and the mold of form,
The harlot's cheek beautied with plast'ring art
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue,
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The form of plausive manners--that these men,
The heartache and the thousand natural shocks
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble
The instances that second marriage move
	   The hart ungalled play.
The instant burst of clamor that she made
ROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord, what is your cause of
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
That our devices still are overthrown;
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That has no relish of salvation in 't--
The inward service of the mind and soul
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
The leprous distilment, whose effect
The lives of many. The cess of majesty
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
The great man down, you mark his favorite flies;
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
There was he gaming, there o'ertook in 's rouse,
The poor, advanced, makes friends of enemies.
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
There falling out at tennis"; or perchance
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
There is a play tonight before the King.
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
[The trumpets sounds. Dumb show follows.]
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
The tedious day with sleep.	[Sleeps.]
The triumph of his pledge.
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The violence of either grief or joy
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
They clepe us drunkards and with swinish phrase
[They exit.]
They have proclaimed their malefactions;
[They exit.]
[They withdraw.]
This bad begins, and worse remains behind.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This night to play before him.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
There, my lord.
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
There's never a villain dwelling in all Denmark
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
The single and peculiar life is bound
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine,
The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast--
The undiscovered country from whose bourn
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
	The which he loved passing well.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The time invests you. Go, your servants tend.
[They exit.]
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
This must not be." And then I prescripts gave her,
	   This realm dismantled was
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna.
This above all: to thine own self be true,
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
The origin and commencement of his grief
The safety and the health of this whole state.
These hands are not more like.
These words like daggers enter in my ears.
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
[They exit.]
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
The speech of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
Therefore no more but to the matter. My mother,
Th' important acting of your dread command?
This is the very coinage of your brain.
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute,
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This something-settled matter in his heart,
Th' observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
Thy natural magic and dire property
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Thou turn'st my eyes into my very soul,
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
'Tis heavy with him. And am I then revenged
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
'Tis too narrow for your mind.
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
To a nunnery, go.	[He exits.]
	   Thus runs the world away.
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Till then, sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Thyself do grace to them and bring them in.
'Tis now the very witching time of night,
('Tis too much proved), that with devotion's visage
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell.
[To Queen.] Leave wringing of your hands. Peace, sit
To be commanded.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
To be or not to be--that is the question:
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O list!
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
To give the world assurance of a man.
To England send him, or confine him where
To both your honors.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To give them seals never, my soul, consent.
To hear him so inclined.
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
To heaven.
To cast thee up again. What may this mean
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him
To his own scandal.
To his unmastered importunity.
To hear and see the matter.
To keep itself from noyance, but much more
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you.
To keep those many many bodies safe
To let you know of it.
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue,
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
To punish me with this and this with me,
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
To put an antic disposition on)
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To serve in such a difference. What devil was 't
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And call it accident.
And carriage of the article designed,
And do 't the speedier that you may direct me
	   And dupped the chamber door,
And even the like precurse of feared events,
And ever three parts coward), I do not know
And foreign mart for implements of war,
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And for your rapier most especial,
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation.
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on
And let him know so.
And let us hear Barnardo speak of this.
And let us once again assail your ears,
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And call the noblest to the audience.
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.
And hath abatements and delays as many
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And let them know both what we mean to do
	   And his sandal shoon.
And from his mother's closet hath he dragged him.
And let me speak to th' yet unknowing world
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And many suchlike ases of great charge,
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And of all Christians' souls, I pray God. God be wi'
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work,
And mermaid-like awhile they bore her up,
And prologue to the omen coming on,
	And hath shipped me into the land,
And in a postscript here, he says "alone."
	And in his grave rained many a tear.
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain
And our affairs from England come too late.
And set a double varnish on the fame
And that our drift look through our bad
And hurt my brother.
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And then this "should" is like a spendthrift sigh,
And they can well on horseback, but this gallant
And therefore I forbid my tears. But yet
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
And thus awhile the fit will work on him.
And thy best graces spend it at thy will.--
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
	   And we cast away moan.
[A noise within.]
As level as the cannon to his blank
And hit the woundless air. O, come away!
And we shall jointly labor with your soul
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?--
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And what's untimely done. ...
And, where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weighed,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
	And will he not come again?
And will not let belief take hold of him
	And will he not come again?
And will not wrong it.
And with no less nobility of love
And with such cozenage--is 't not perfect
And where th' offense is, let the great ax fall.
And will this brothers' wager frankly play.--
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And yet it is almost against my conscience.
	   An thou hadst not come to my bed."
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
An hour of quiet thereby shall we see.
And you must needs have heard, how I am punished
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
An earnest conjuration from the King,
[A noise within.]
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Are here arrived, give order that these bodies
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pie,
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As had he been encorpsed and demi-natured
An understanding simple and unschooled.
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
As if increase of appetite had grown
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful,
As one incapable of her own distress
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practice
A touch, a touch. I do confess 't.
  [A noise within:] "Let her come in!"
As England was his faithful tributary,
(As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
(As make your bouts more violent to that end)
	As if I had never been such.
As day does to your eye.
(As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As to peace-parted souls.
[A table prepared. Enter Trumpets, Drums, and Officers
As of a father; for let the world take note,
	At his head a grass-green turf,
	   At his heels a stone.
A truant disposition, good my lord.
Attendants, Lords, Guards, Musicians, Laertes's Followers, Soldiers, Officers
A very ribbon in the cap of youth--
As harbingers preceding still the fates
Ay, madam, it is common.
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO  Have you had quiet guard?
BARNARDO
BARNARDO  He.
BARNARDO  Long live the King!
BARNARDO  I have seen nothing.
BARNARDO  Say, what, is Horatio there?
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And praised be rashness for it; let us know,
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
And then it started like a guilty thing
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And so have I a noble father lost,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
And spur my dull revenge. What is a man
	A pickax and a spade, a spade,
A royal knavery--an exact command,
And not have strewed thy grave.
As by your safety, greatness, wisdom, all things else,
[Aside.] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is),
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
(As it doth well appear unto our state)
Away, for everything is sealed and done
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
  BARNARDO
Awake the god of day, and at his warning,
BARNARDO  Last night of all,
Barbary horses against six French swords, their
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage,
Bears such an emphasis, whose phrase of sorrow
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
At least the whisper goes so: our last king,
BARNARDO  See, it stalks away.
BARNARDO  Sit down awhile,
BARNARDO  Well, good night.
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
But not where I have aimed them.
Be as ourself in Denmark.--Madam, come.
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But that I know love is begun by time
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Bestial oblivion or some craven scruple
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
But not by him.
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
(A thought which, quartered, hath but one part
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
BARNARDO  Who's there?
Barnardo hath my place. Give you good night.
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Been thus encountered: a figure like your father,
Bestow this place on us a little while.
Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
BARNARDO  'Tis here.
Bring him before us.
But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
But let it be.--Horatio, I am dead.
Before my God, I might not this believe
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath
But pardon 't as you are a gentleman. This presence
But soft, behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But that this folly drowns it.	[He exits.]
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But wilt thou hear now how I did proceed?
But yet to me they're strong. The Queen his mother
Being thus benetted round with villainies,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
But I do prophesy th' election lights
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I have that within which passes show,
But in battalions: first, her father slain;
But let this same be presently performed
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
Both countenance and excuse.--Ho, Guildenstern!
Break we our watch up, and by my advice
	But age with his stealing steps
But in the gross and scope of mine opinion
But look, the morn in russet mantle clad
Between the pass and fell incensed points
But now, my cousin Hamlet and my son--
But, since he is better, we have therefore odds.
But soft, but soft awhile! Here comes the King,
But two months dead--nay, not so much, not two.
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
By desperate appliance are relieved
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
	   By Cock, they are to blame.
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid with weight
	By his cockle hat and staff
But never the offense. To bear all smooth and even,
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But you must know your father lost a father,
By laborsome petition, and at last
CAPTAIN
CAPTAIN
CAPTAIN  Against some part of Poland.
CAPTAIN  I will do 't, my lord.
CAPTAIN  God be wi' you, sir.	[He exits.]
  CORNELIUS
CAPTAIN  They are of Norway, sir.
CORNELIUS/VOLTEMAND
"Call him a-down-a."--O, how the wheel becomes
By what it fed on. And yet, within a month
Come. [They play.] Another hit. What say you?
Come, for England.	[He exits.]
Can you advise me?
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
[Drum, trumpets, and shot.]
CAPTAIN
[Enter Ghost.]
[Enter Horatio and Marcellus.]
[Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and others.]
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
FORTINBRAS  Go softly on.	[All but the Captain exit.]
FRANCISCO
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
Characters in the Play
Christian burial.
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
Christian burial.
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Come, for the third, Laertes. You do but dally.
Come, Hamlet, come and take this hand from me.
Comes armed through our watch so like the king
Come short of what he did.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.--
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Conjures the wand'ring stars and makes them stand
Convert his gyves to graces, so that my arrows,
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Could not with all their quantity of love
Come, I will give you way for these your letters
Courtiers at the Danish court:
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Danish soldiers:
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Cornelius.]
Couch we awhile and mark.	[They step aside.]
Created on Jul 31, 2015, from FDT version 0.9.2
Cries "cuckold" to my father, brands the harlot
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Deprived thee of!--Hold off the earth awhile,
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair--
Denmark.
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
DOCTOR
England.
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star,
[Enter Barnardo and Francisco, two sentinels.]
Delay it not. I'll have him hence tonight.
Doctor of Divinity
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
DOCTOR  No more be done.
[Enter Ghost.]
[Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Lords attendant, and the
[Enter a Messenger with letters.]
FORTINBRAS, Prince of Norway
[Enter a Lord.]
FORTINBRAS
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO  Barnardo?
FRANCISCO  Give you good night.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Farewell, dear mother.
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
For art and exercise in your defense,
Fordo its own life. 'Twas of some estate.
For food and diet to some enterprise
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
	For such a guest is meet.
FRANCISCO
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did slay this Fortinbras, who by a sealed compact,
Did sometimes march? By heaven, I charge thee,
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
Does it not, think thee, stand me now upon--
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Do not forever with thy vailed lids
Doth make the night joint laborer with the day?
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss.
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it
Edited by Barbara A. Mowat and Paul Werstine
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
[Enter Gravedigger and Another.]
[Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Barnardo.]
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
[Enter Fortinbras with his army over the stage.]
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio.]
[Enter Horatio and others.]
[Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.]
[Enter King.]
[Enter King and Laertes.]
[Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and
Dost know this waterfly?
Drum, Colors, and Attendants.]
Eats not the flats with more impiteous haste
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.]
[Enter King and two or three.]
[Enter Osric.]
[Enter Osric, a courtier.]
[Enter Fortinbras with the English Ambassadors with
[Enter Hamlet.]
[Enter Ophelia distracted.]
[Enter Ophelia.]
[Enter Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and others.]
[Enter a Messenger.]
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
[Enter Laertes with others.
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
FORTINBRAS
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
FORTINBRAS  Where is this sight?
[Enter Queen.]
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brow
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
FORTINBRAS  Let four captains
  FRANCISCO
Fie on 't, ah fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide,
	For and a shrouding sheet,
[Enter Sailors.]
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
[Francisco exits.]
GRAVEDIGGER  A pestilence on him for a mad rogue!
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
[Forcing him to drink the poison.]
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, marry, is 't--crowner's 'quest law.
GRAVEDIGGER  E'en that.
GRAVEDIGGER  Cudgel thy brains no more about it,
GRAVEDIGGER  Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
GRAVEDIGGER  For none, neither.
[Enter Rosencrantz.]
FRANCISCO  Not a mouse stirring.
Fare you well, my dove.
[Flourish. Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the
Folger Shakespeare Library
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
Follow my mother.	[King dies.]
For goodness, growing to a pleurisy,
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
Fortinbras.
GRAVEDIGGER  Faith, if he be not rotten before he die
GRAVEDIGGER  How can that be, unless she drowned
GRAVEDIGGER  It must be se offendendo; it cannot be
GRAVEDIGGER  Is she to be buried in Christian burial,
GRAVEDIGGER  Mine, sir.
GRAVEDIGGER  Give me leave. Here lies the water;
GRAVEDIGGER  Of all the days i' th' year, I came to 't
GRAVEDIGGER  One that was a woman, sir, but, rest
GRAVEDIGGER  'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again
FORTINBRAS  Let us haste to hear it
	For such a guest is meet.
For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
For though I am not splenitive and rash,
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
GRAVEDIGGER  A whoreson mad fellow's it was.
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
GRAVEDIGGER  Cannot you tell that? Every fool can
GRAVEDIGGER  For no man, sir.
GRAVEDIGGER  To 't.
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, because he was mad. He shall
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, here in Denmark. I have been
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his
GRAVEDIGGER  You lie out on 't, sir, and therefore 'tis
GRAVEDIGGER [sings]
  GUILDENSTERN
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
GRAVEDIGGER  I like thy wit well, in good faith. The
GRAVEDIGGER  'Twill not be seen in him there. There
GRAVEDIGGER  Very strangely, they say.
GRAVEDIGGER  What is he that builds stronger than
Guildenstern and Attendants.]
HAMLET  Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
HAMLET
HAMLET  Come on, sir.
GRAVEDIGGER  He was the first that ever bore arms.
GRAVEDIGGER  What, art a heathen? How dost thou
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, there thou sayst. And the more
GRAVEDIGGER [sings]
HAMLET
  Gentlemen
HAMLET  Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
HAMLET  The phrase would be more germane to the
HORATIO
HAMLET  There's another. Why may not that be the
HAMLET  How if I answer no?
HAMLET  One.
HAMLET  They are sheep and calves which seek out
HAMLET  Thou pray'st not well.	[They grapple.]
HAMLET  To this effect, sir, after what flourish your
HAMLET  Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his
HAMLET  Whose was it?
HAMLET  Why, e'en so. And now my Lady Worm's,
HAMLET, [advancing]
HORATIO  Ay, my lord, and of calves' skins too.
HORATIO  Not a jot more, my lord.
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
[Ghost exits.]
Give him the cup.
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha 't.
Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
Give us the foils. Come on.
[Giving them a paper.]
Giving to you no further personal power
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
Gravedigger
HAMLET  Has this fellow no feeling of his business? He
HAMLET  How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
HAMLET  It is but foolery, but it is such a kind of
HAMLET
Gravedigger's companion
HAMLET
HAMLET  As thou 'rt a man,
HAMLET  He did comply, sir, with his dug before he
HAMLET
HAMLET  How long is that since?
HAMLET  I do not think so. Since he went into France, I
HAMLET
HAMLET  In happy time.
HAMLET  I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in 't.
HAMLET  Judgment!
HAMLET  Nay, I know not.
HAMLET  I am constant to my purposes. They follow
HAMLET  Nay, come again.
HAMLET  O, I die, Horatio!
HAMLET  Or of a courtier, which could say "Good
HAMLET  Why?
HAMLET  She well instructs me.	[Lord exits.]
HAMLET  That skull had a tongue in it and could sing
HAMLET  'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment
HAMLET  Yours. [Osric exits.] He does well to commend
HAMLET  Why he more than another?
HAMLET, [to Horatio]  What, the fair Ophelia?
HORATIO
HORATIO  Ay, my lord.
HORATIO  Custom hath made it in him a property of
HORATIO  Friends to this ground.
HORATIO
HORATIO  If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will
HORATIO  It might, my lord.
HORATIO, Hamlet's friend and confidant
HORATIO  Never believe it.
HORATIO  Nay, good my lord--
HORATIO  This lapwing runs away with the shell on his
HORATIO  Well, sit we down,
HORATIO  You will lose, my lord.
[He falls.]
He hath not failed to pester us with message
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
Hamlet, returned, shall know you are come home.
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
	Hath clawed me in his clutch,
Have heaven and Earth together demonstrated
Heaven make thee free of it. I follow thee.--
[He digs up a skull.]
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin; rub thy brows.
Here's yet some liquor left.	[He picks up the cup.]
Hamlet comes back; what would you undertake
Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy
How does the Queen?
I am dead, Horatio.--Wretched queen, adieu.--
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
I am justly killed with mine own treachery.
I cannot live to hear the news from England.
HAMLET  Not a whit. We defy augury. There is a
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Good madam.
HAMLET  This?
HAMLET  Thou dost lie in 't, to be in 't and say it is thine.
HAMLET  Upon what ground?
HAMLET  What man dost thou dig it for?
HAMLET  How came he mad?
HAMLET  What woman then?
HAMLET, [to Laertes]
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  'Tis here.
HAMLET, Prince of Denmark, son of the late King Hamlet and Queen Gertrude
HORATIO  What is it you would see?
Hamlet is of the faction that is wronged;
Hamlet the Dane.
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
He poured a flagon of Rhenish on my head once.
[He puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
Had witchcraft in 't. He grew unto his seat,
Hamlet.
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
I do receive your offered love like love
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
If Hamlet give the first or second hit
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
I have a voice and precedent of peace
HAMLET  That is Laertes, a very noble youth. Mark.
HAMLET  And smelt so? Pah!	[He puts the skull down.]
HAMLET  How absolute the knave is! We must speak by
HAMLET  I embrace it freely
HAMLET  How "strangely"?
HAMLET  No, by this hand.
HAMLET  No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither,
HAMLET  Who is to be buried in 't?
HAMLET, [taking the skull]  Let me see. Alas, poor
HORATIO  A piece of him.
HORATIO  Not from his
HORATIO  What's that, my lord?
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Hamlet, with others, among them Voltemand and
[He digs up more skulls.]
He never gave commandment for their death.
High on a stage be placed to the view,
How these things came about. So shall you hear
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
I had not coted him. I feared he did but trifle
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine ignorance
HAMLET  Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this
HAMLET  To what base uses we may return, Horatio!
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  Do, if it will not stand.
HORATIO  E'en so.
Have we (as 'twere with a defeated joy,
HAMLET  Very well, my lord.
HORATIO  'Twere to consider too curiously to consider
Hamlet
Hath turned itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
[He drinks and then drops the pearl in the cup.]
Here's to thy health.
His access to me.
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.
HORATIO  E'en so, my lord.
I dare not drink yet, madam--by and by.
I do not fear it; I have seen you both.
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
I'll play this bout first. Set it by awhile.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups,
In thee there is not half an hour's life.
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
Fingered their packet, and in fine withdrew
Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
For England.
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but
(For so this side of our known world esteemed him)
For that which thou hast done) must send thee
For they are actions that a man might play;
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
[Flourish. All but Hamlet exit.]
For what we know must be and is as common
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
	   From another one?
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
From the first corse till he that died today,
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
GENTLEMAN  Seafaring men, sir. They say they have
GENTLEMEN, [within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
GUILDENSTERN  A "thing," my lord?
Gertrude.--
[Ghost exits.]
Give me my father!
Gives me superfluous death.
	God 'a mercy on his soul.
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.--
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted color off,
Guildenstern.]
HAMLET
For by the image of my cause I see
Good gentlemen, he hath much talked of you,
Good night, mother.
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Go seek him out, speak fair, and bring the body
HAMLET
	   Go to thy deathbed.
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Do not believe it.
HAMLET  I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a
HAMLET  No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
HAMLET
HAMLET  For God's love, let me hear!
HAMLET  Hear you, sir,
HAMLET  Ay, sir, that soaks up the King's countenance,
HAMLET  I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
HAMLET  I would you did, sir. Yet, in faith, if you did, it
HAMLET  Of him, sir.
HAMLET  Saw who?
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  A man may fish with the worm that hath eat
HAMLET  At supper.
HAMLET  But soft, what noise? Who calls on Hamlet?
HAMLET  But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for
HAMLET  I am glad to see you well.
HAMLET  I beseech you, remember. [He motions to
HAMLET  I dare not confess that, lest I should compare
HAMLET  I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio.]
HAMLET  In my mind's eye, Horatio.
HAMLET  Safely stowed.
HAMLET  Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in
HAMLET  'Swounds, show me what thou 't do.
HAMLET  The body is with the King, but the King is not
HAMLET  That I can keep your counsel and not mine
HAMLET  That's two of his weapons. But, well--
HAMLET  The King my father?
HAMLET  The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the
HAMLET  What call you the "carriages"?
HAMLET  What's his weapon?
HAMLET, [aside to Horatio]  Thy state is the more gracious,
HAMLET, [to Osric]  What imports the nomination of
HORATIO
HORATIO
HAMLET  Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HAMLET, [aside]
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  Ay, good my lord.
HORATIO  Hail to your Lordship.
HORATIO  Is 't not possible to understand in another
HORATIO  Is 't possible?
HORATIO  Let Him bless thee too.
HORATIO  Let them come in. [Gentleman exits.] I do not
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  Good my lord, be quiet.
HORATIO  I knew you must be edified by the margent
HORATIO
HORATIO  Peace, who comes here?
HORATIO
HORATIO  I beseech you.
HORATIO [reads the letter]  Horatio, when thou shalt have
Hamlet.
[Hamlet exits.]
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
HORATIO
HORATIO  His purse is empty already; all 's golden words
HORATIO  How was this sealed?
HORATIO  Why, what a king is this!
Hadst thou thy wits and didst persuade revenge,
Hamlet,
[Handing him a paper.]
HORATIO
HORATIO  What are they that would speak with me?
[Hamlet and Laertes are separated.]
HORATIO  As thou art to thyself.
Hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
He answers:
HORATIO, [aside to Hamlet]  No, my good lord.
He should those bearers put to sudden death,
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
	   He is dead and gone;
	   He is gone, he is gone,
	He never will come again.
	Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny,
He that hath killed my king and whored my mother,
Her brother is in secret come from France,
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
He that thou knowest thine,
Here's the commission. Read it at more leisure.
He was a man. Take him for all in all,
	His beard was as white as snow,
His liberty is full of threats to all--
HAMLET  Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Hoist with his own petard; and 't shall go hard
[Horatio exits.]
How now, what hath befallen?
[Horatio exits.]
Horatio--or I do forget myself!
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with.
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry.
How now, Horatio, you tremble and look pale.
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
His means of death, his obscure funeral
His silence will sit drooping.
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
I am very glad to see you. [To Barnardo.] Good
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
If by direct or by collateral hand
If you desire to know the certainty
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
I'll rant as well as thou.
I loved Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
I loved you ever. But it is no matter.
Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
I have sent, and repair thou to me with as much speed
I'll do 't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I'll lug the guts into the neighbor room.
I must to England, you know that.
Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
In ear and ear. O, my dear Gertrude, this,
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
In what particular thought to work I know not,
In further evil?
I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
I shall not look upon his like again.
Is not this something more than fantasy?
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
In hugger-mugger to inter him; poor Ophelia
Indeed, without an oath, I'll make an end on 't:
In obstinate condolement is a course
In the dead waste and middle of the night,
In the same figure like the King that's dead.
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
In filial obligation for some term
Into a tow'ring passion.
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
I pray you, go with me.
I pray you pass with your best violence.
I prithee, do not mock me, fellow student.
I stand aloof and will no reconcilement
I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
I think I hear them.--Stand ho! Who is there?
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
KING
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
It had been so with us, had we been there.
It could not move thus.
It is offended.
It is the poisoned cup. It is too late.
Is strict in his arrest), O, I could tell you--
It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain.
It is most retrograde to our desire,
It shall as level to your judgment 'pear
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
It sends some precious instance of itself
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will be short. The interim's mine,
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It would be spoke to.
I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.	[She drinks.]
I thank you. Keep the door. [Followers exit.] O, thou
It is a poison tempered by himself.
It must be shortly known to him from England
I would not hear your enemy say so,
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING  Alas, alas!
KING  Good Laertes,
KING  How do you, pretty lady?
KING  O, for two special reasons,
KING  O, he is mad, Laertes!
KING  Pretty Ophelia--
KING
KING  At supper where?
KING  Attend!
KING  Conceit upon her father.
KING CLAUDIUS, brother to the late King Hamlet
KING  Dead.
KING  Gertrude, do not drink.
KING  How long hath she been thus?
KING  I do not think 't.
KING  But where is he?
KING  Let him demand his fill.
KING  Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
KING  O Gertrude, come away!
KING  O heavy deed!
KING  Part them. They are incensed.
KING  She swoons to see them bleed.
KING  So you shall,
KING  The doors are broke.
KING  What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
By letters congruing to that effect,
GENTLEMAN
Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
GENTLEMAN  She is importunate,
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Groped I to find out them; had my desire,
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  Good.
HAMLET
HAMLET  Good sir, whose powers are these?
HAMLET  How purposed, sir, I pray you?
HAMLET  Up from my cabin,
HORATIO  That is most
HAMLET
HAMLET  Who commands them, sir?
[He exits.]
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God, God,
HAMLET
HAMLET  For England?
HAMLET  In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger
HAMLET
HORATIO
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Howe'er my haps, my joys will ne'er begin.
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for
Indeed would make one think there might be
HORATIO  Remember it, my lord!
HORATIO  That can I.
How all occasions do inform against me
If that his Majesty would aught with us,
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
[He exits.]
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Indeed distract; her mood will needs be pitied.
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
KING
KING
KING
HAMLET  He will stay till you come.	[Attendants exit.]
KING  Thy loving father, Hamlet.
KING  Ay, Hamlet.
KING, [to Attendants.]  Go, seek him there.
KING  Where is Polonius?
King. They have letters for him. Ere we were two days
LAERTES
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety
If his chief good and market of his time
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
Is not to stir without great argument,
KING
KING, [aside]
LORD  My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by
LAERTES  It well appears. But tell me
LAERTES
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire.
(Let me not think on 't; frailty, thy name is woman!),
Looking before and after, gave us not
Lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
MARCELLUS, [to Horatio]
King hold his purpose, I will win for him, an I can.
LAERTES  Come, my lord.	[They play.]
LAERTES  Come, one for me.
LAERTES  I am satisfied in nature,
MARCELLUS
LAERTES  Have at you now!
Majesty, it is the breathing time of day with me. Let
My father's brother, but no more like my father
I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.
LAERTES  My dread lord,
LAERTES  Well, again.
LAERTES  You mock me, sir.
LAERTES, [to Claudius]
LAERTES  No.
LORD  The King and Queen and all are coming down.
[Laertes wounds Hamlet. Then in scuffling they change
LORD  The Queen desires you to use some gentle
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Like Niobe, all tears--why she, even she
MARCELLUS
My sea-gown scarfed about me, in the dark
My mother. Father and mother is man and wife,
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
"Now the King drinks to Hamlet." Come, begin.
OSRIC  Nay, good my lord, for my ease, in good faith.
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
Looks he not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
MARCELLUS  Holla, Barnardo.
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
MARCELLUS  Speak to it, Horatio.
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone and will not answer.
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
(O God, a beast that wants discourse of reason
Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
My lord, I'll hit him now.
OSRIC  Ay, my good lord.
Man and wife is one flesh, and so, my mother.--
OSRIC  I commend my duty to your Lordship.
OSRIC  I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person
OSRIC  I mean, sir, for his weapon. But in the imputation
OSRIC  Nothing neither way.
OSRIC  Rapier and dagger.
OSRIC  Shall I deliver you e'en so?
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath laid, sir, that in a dozen
OSRIC  The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
LAERTES  Say you so? Come on.	[Play.]
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
LAERTES, [aside]
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS  And liegemen to the Dane.
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
(My fears forgetting manners) to unfold
My thoughts be bloody or be nothing worth!
No jocund health that Denmark drinks today
OSRIC  A hit, a very palpable hit.
OSRIC  I know you are not ignorant--
OSRIC  Of Laertes?
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
OSRIC  Sir?
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
O farewell, honest soldier. Who hath relieved
Of thinking too precisely on th' event
OSRIC  You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
On plots and errors happen.
On the instant, they got clear of our ship; so I alone
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
OSRIC  Your Lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Or for some frontier?
O, that this too, too sullied flesh would melt,
Or that the Everlasting had not fixed
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Our son shall win.
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
	How should I your true love know
I pray thee, stay with us. Go not to Wittenberg.
KING  What dost thou mean by this?
KING  What is the cause, Laertes,
KING  Who shall stay you?
HAMLET  Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
KING  Why, now you speak
KING  Will you know them, then?
LAERTES
LAERTES  My will, not all the world.
LAERTES
LAERTES  How now, what noise is that?
LAERTES  I pray you, give me leave.
LAERTES  None but his enemies.
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
MARCELLUS  Is it not like the King?
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
MESSENGER  Save yourself, my lord.
Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Marcellus?
[March within.]
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
LAERTES, her brother
Marcellus and Barnardo, on their watch,
My father--methinks I see my father.
My head should be struck off.
King best service in the end. He keeps them like an
LAERTES
LAERTES
MARCELLUS  My good lord.
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
LAERTES
LAERTES  Let this be so.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
Most throughly for my father.
	   Larded all with sweet flowers;
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
My lord, the King your father.
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
Let come what comes, only I'll be revenged
LAERTES  He is justly served.
LAERTES  A document in madness: thoughts and remembrance
LAERTES  This nothing's more than matter.
LAERTES  Where is my father?
LAERTES  Do you see this, O God?
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.
"Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!"
	Let in the maid, that out a maid
LAERTES
  MARCELLUS
Make Ossa like a wart. Nay, an thou 'lt mouth,
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
LAERTES
Mother, good night indeed. This counselor
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Nature is fine in love, and, where 'tis fine,
Next, your son gone, and he most violent author
No, my good lord, but as you did command
No noble rite nor formal ostentation)
LAERTES
	   Never departed more.
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poisoned.
(No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
	   No, no, he is dead.
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
OPHELIA
No med'cine in the world can do thee good.
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  There's fennel for you, and columbines.
OPHELIA  There's rosemary, that's for remembrance.
OPHELIA [sings]
  OSRIC
No, no, the drink, the drink! O, my dear Hamlet!
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  Pray let's have no words of this, but when
OPHELIA  Well, God dild you. They say the owl was a
Of mighty opposites.
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Of my true mother.
Or not at all.
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
No, not to stay the grinding of the ax,
OPHELIA  Pray you, mark.
OPHELIA [sings]
OPHELIA [sings]
OSRIC  Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as
OSRIC  I thank your Lordship; it is very hot.
OSRIC  Look to the Queen there, ho!
OPHELIA  Say you? Nay, pray you, mark.
OSRIC  Sweet lord, if your Lordship were at leisure, I
OSRIC  It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
OSRIC  Your Lordship is right welcome back to
Of mine own eyes.
OSRIC  How is 't, Laertes?
Oh, ho!
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
Osric to put on his hat.]
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
O villainy! Ho! Let the door be locked.	[Osric exits.]
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor thine on me.	[Dies.]
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
O Gertrude, Gertrude,
O God, Horatio, what a wounded name,
OPHELIA [sings]
O, O, O, O!	[Dies.]
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him "lord,"
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Of Hamlet's transformation, so call it,
Of your dear father, is 't writ in your revenge
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O heavens, is 't possible a young maid's wits
Not shriving time allowed.
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
OPHELIA  I hope all will be well. We must be patient,
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief.
O, this is the poison of deep grief. It springs
OPHELIA  You must sing "A-down a-down"--and you
O, here they come.
OSRIC
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Not so, my lord; I am too much in the sun.
On Fortinbras; he has my dying voice.
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
POLONIUS, father of Ophelia and Laertes, councillor to King Claudius
Passing through nature to eternity.
Pursued my life.
Peace, break thee off! Look where it comes again.
POLONIUS
Pays homage to us), thou mayst not coldly set
Players who take the roles of Prologue, Player King, Player Queen, and Lucianus in <title>The Murder of Gonzago</title>
Popped in between th' election and my hopes,
Pray you, love, remember. And there is pansies,
[Prepare to play.]
QUEEN
QUEEN
Possess it merely. That it should come to this:
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
LAERTES
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN  Alack,
QUEEN
QUEEN  Come, let me wipe thy face.
QUEEN  For love of God, forbear him.
QUEEN  Calmly, good Laertes.
QUEEN GERTRUDE, widow of King Hamlet, now married to Claudius
QUEEN  Alack, what noise is this?
QUEEN  Let her come in.	[Gentleman exits.]
QUEEN  I will not speak with her.
QUEEN  O my son, what theme?
QUEEN  Nay, but Ophelia--
QUEEN  This is mere madness;
QUEEN  What would she have?
QUEEN  Alas, look here, my lord.
	Quoth she "Before you tumbled me,
QUEEN  How now, Ophelia?
  ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ  Ho! Bring in the lord.
ROSENCRANTZ  Believe what?
ROSENCRANTZ  I understand you not, my lord.
QUEEN
REYNALDO, servant to Polonius
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ  Will 't please you go, my lord?
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you must tell us where the
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
ROSENCRANTZ
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit.]
Sailors
SAILOR  God bless you, sir.
Scene 2
Scene 3
Richer than that which four successive kings
Scene 5
Scene 6
Scene 7
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Rough-hew them how we will--
SAILOR  He shall, sir, an 't please Him. There's a letter
Scene 1
Scene 1
Season your admiration for a while
"Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I know not "seems."
Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.--
QUEEN  If it be,
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit.]
QUEEN  He's fat and scant of breath.--
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Scene 4
[She lifts the cup.]
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Repast them with my blood.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
She turns to favor and to prettiness.
Shows itself pure: he weeps for what is done.
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Scene 2
Should have kept short, restrained, and out of haunt
[Sings.]	By Gis and by Saint Charity,
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
[Sings.] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
[Sings.]	He is dead and gone, lady,
[Sings.]	Tomorrow is Saint Valentine's day,
[Sings.]	White his shroud as the mountain snow--
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
Sits smiling to my heart, in grace whereof
Sir, my good friend. I'll change that name with you.
So criminal and so capital in nature,
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
So bloodily hast struck?
So excellent a king, that was to this
So frowned he once when, in an angry parle,
Sir, in this audience
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to 't.
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
Some little time, so by your companies
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
So much for this, sir. Now shall you see the other.
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes--believe
So much from th' understanding of himself
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
ROSENCRANTZ  Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
	"So would I 'a done, by yonder sun,
Speak loudly for him.
Subscribed it, gave 't th' impression, placed it
THE GHOST
Take it to heart? Fie, 'tis a fault to heaven,
Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you, make haste.
Th' effect of what I wrote?
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
That, opened, lies within our remedy.
The point envenomed too! Then, venom, to thy
There's rue for you, and here's some for me; we
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
Thereto pricked on by a most emulate pride,
	They bore him barefaced on the bier,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
The drink, the drink! I am poisoned.	[She dies.]
They are not near my conscience. Their defeat
That thou so many princes at a shot
[They exit.]
[They exit.]
They had begun the play. I sat me down,
[They exit, marching, after the which, a peal of
Thick, and unwholesome in their thoughts and
	Then up he rose and donned his clothes
Things standing thus unknown, shall I leave behind
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Stay, give me drink.--Hamlet, this pearl is thine.
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Stay! speak! speak! I charge thee, speak!
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
That can denote me truly. These indeed "seem,"
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?--
The need we have to use you did provoke
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
That treason can but peep to what it would,
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England,
The ratifiers and props of every word,
Spurns enviously at straws, speaks things in doubt
Stick fiery off indeed.
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
That I am guiltless of your father's death
There's matter in these sighs; these profound heaves
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
[They exit.]
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
They find us touched, we will our kingdom give,
This grave shall have a living monument.
There's letters sealed; and my two schoolfellows,
This is too heavy. Let me see another.
They shall go far with little.
This sudden sending him away must seem
This unprevailing woe and think of us
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Thought and afflictions, passion, hell itself
Thou knowest already.
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Thrift, thrift, Horatio. The funeral baked meats
"This must be so." We pray you, throw to earth
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Till our scale turn the beam! O rose of May,
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
[To Laertes.] Strengthen your patience in our last
	   To be your Valentine.
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
Speak, man.
The unseen good old man.
They cry "Choose we, Laertes shall be king!"
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
This mad young man. But so much was our love,
This man shall set me packing.
[They exit, Hamlet tugging in Polonius.]
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
To draw apart the body he hath killed,
This marvel to you.
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To give these mourning duties to your father.
This warlike volley.
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature,
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
To hell, allegiance! Vows, to the blackest devil!
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
She speaks much of her father, says she hears
Sure He that made us with such large discourse,
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
That I must call 't in question.
That are so fortified against our story,
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
That capability and godlike reason
Such was the very armor he had on
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
That grows to seed. Things rank and gross in nature
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That have a father killed, a mother stained,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he which hath your noble father slain
That's the end.
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
[The Queen falls.]
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
Then Hamlet does it not; Hamlet denies it.
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favors.
The soldier's music and the rite of war
[They exit.]
That, being of so young days brought up with him
That, if again this apparition come,
That on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew,
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
The head is not more native to the heart,
That might your nature, honor, and exception
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
They bleed on both sides.--How is it, my lord?
[They enter with Hamlet.]
That inward breaks and shows no cause without
The bell then beating one--
The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
The hearers to collection. They aim at it
[They exit.]
This is th' impostume of much wealth and peace,
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
This must be known, which, being kept close, might
Thou art a scholar. Speak to it, Horatio.
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Till by some elder masters of known honor
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Therefore I have entreated him along
'Tis strange.
'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
To do 't. Examples gross as Earth exhort me:
To fust in us unused. Now whether it be
Together with that fair and warlike form
To have proved most royal; and for his passage,
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
To let this canker of our nature come
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth
To make it truster of your own report
To give it due content.
To him from whom you brought them.
To keep my name ungored. But till that time
To mine own room again, making so bold
To my revenge; but in my terms of honor
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To quit him with this arm? And is 't not to be
To show my duty in your coronation,
To show us so much gentry and goodwill
To sleep, perchance to dream. Ay, there's the rub,
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To speak of horrors--he comes before me.
To tell my story.
To th' ambassadors of England gives
'Twere good she were spoken with, for she may
To tell him his commandment is fulfilled,
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To you yourself, to us, to everyone.
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Ungartered, and down-gyved to his ankle,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Transports his poisoned shot, may miss our name
Truly deliver.
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Upon the witness of these gentlemen
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
To tell us this.
[To the King.] Be you and I behind an arras then.
To the inheritance of Fortinbras
To their lord's murder. Roasted in wrath and fire,
To the next abstinence, the next more easy;
To the unsatisfied.
To those of mine.
Touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold.
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
Treachery! Seek it out.
To you alone.
To youth and liberty.
[Trumpets the while.]
Two Messengers
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
Unhouseled, disappointed, unaneled,
Until my eyelids will no longer wag!
Unmixed with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
Unbated and envenomed. The foul practice
(Unless things mortal move them not at all)
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Upon his will I sealed my hard consent.
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole
Upon my sword.
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and Earth,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Up sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
	We beg your hearing patiently.	[He exits.]
We go to gain a little patch of ground
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
What, has this thing appeared again tonight?
What have I done, that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
We cannot get from him.
We heard it all.--My lord, do as you please,
We'll put the matter to the present push.--
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
What I have said to you.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood?
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
What is 't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
What a piece of work is a man, how noble in
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord?
What might be toward that this sweaty haste
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What we have two nights seen.
Was gaged by our king, which had returned
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon whose property and most dear life
VOLTEMAND
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
  VOLTEMAND
Videlicet, a brothel--or so forth. See you now
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
We must with all our majesty and skill
Well said, old mole. Canst work i' th' earth so fast?--
We shall express our duty in his eye;
We would not understand what was most fit,
What company, at what expense; and finding
What forgeries you please--marry, none so rank
What is the matter?
What is the issue of the business there.
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What's near it with it; or it is a massy wheel
We will bestow ourselves. [To Ophelia.] Read on this
[Voltemand and Cornelius exit.]
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was 't Hamlet wronged Laertes? Never Hamlet.
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Welcome, Horatio.--Welcome, good Marcellus.
Welcome, my good friends.
We may of their encounter frankly judge
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
What does this mean, my lord?
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Well, we shall sift him.
We shall, my lord.	[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
What is the reason that you use me thus?
What think you on 't?
What thou hast said to me.
What warlike noise is this?
What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murder me?
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
When I to sulf'rous and tormenting flames
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
What is 't but to be nothing else but mad?
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
When he lay couched in th' ominous horse,
What majesty should be, what duty is,
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes
When he the ambitious Norway combated.
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
When it proved otherwise?
When honor's at the stake. How stand I, then,
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn
When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
When the compulsive ardor gives the charge,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When we would bring him on to some confession
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where, as they had delivered, both in time,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein we saw thee quietly interred,
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.
Wherein necessity, of matter beggared,
Where is my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Where is this king?--Sirs, stand you all without.
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where, my lord?
Where is your son?
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
When second husband kisses me in bed.
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Whereof he is the head. Then, if he says he loves
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid, indeed,
Where's your father?
Where should we have our thanks?
Where the dead body is bestowed, my lord,
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Whether love lead fortune or else fortune love.
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Which I have told thee of my father's death.
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
	Which bewept to the ground did not go
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Which have solicited--the rest is silence.
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror.
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit,
But our cold maids do "dead men's fingers" call
Holding a weak supposal of our worth
How now? What news?
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I bought an unction of a mountebank
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I could not but by her. The other motive
If one could match you. The 'scrimers of their
I loved your father, and we love ourself,
Imperious Caesar, dead and turned to clay,
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
I did repel his letters and denied
If there be any good thing to be done
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Importing the surrender of those lands
In that and all things will we show our duty.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
	In youth when I did love, did love,
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come.
If this did blast in proof. Soft, let me see.
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
I have seen myself, and served against, the French,
I know him well. He is the brooch indeed
In equal scale weighing delight and dole)
It warms the very sickness in my heart
It may be death.
It was about to speak when the cock crew.
KING
If he by chance escape your venomed stuck,
I have a speech o' fire that fain would blaze,
I'll cross it though it blast me.--Stay, illusion!
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
[It spreads his arms.]
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING  Let's follow, Gertrude.
LAERTES
LAERTES  A Norman was 't?
If thou hast any sound or use of voice,
KING  It falls right.
LAERTES  Ay, my lord,
LAERTES  My lord, I will be ruled,
LAERTES  What part is that, my lord?
Lord, Horatio, this three years I have took note of
MARCELLUS
No more to undertake it, I will work him
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
Now fear I this will give it start again.
OTHER  I tell thee she is. Therefore make her grave
I ha 't!
KING
KING  He made confession of you
KING  If it be so, Laertes
KING  Laertes, you shall hear
KING  Let's further think of this,
KING  'Tis Hamlet's character. "Naked"--
KING  The very same.
LAERTES  Alas, then she is drowned.
KING  A Norman.
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES  I will do 't,
LAERTES  Know you the hand?
LAERTES  Why ask you this?
LAERTES
LAERTES  To cut his throat i' th' church.
LAERTES  What out of this, my lord?
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
King's jester.
Leave us.	[Messenger exits.]
Let's do 't, I pray, and I this morning know
Let us impart what we have seen tonight
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone.
May fit us to our shape. If this should fail,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
More than in words?
No place indeed should murder sanctuarize;
Now follows that you know. Young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
OTHER  But is this law?
OTHER  Go to!
Now out of this--
OTHER  Nay, but hear you, goodman delver--
OTHER  The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
OTHER  "Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright,
Lord Such-a-one's horse when he went to beg it,
Not that I think you did not love your father,
OTHER  Marry, now I can tell.
OTHER  Mass, I cannot tell.
OTHER  Why, 'tis found so.
Of these dilated articles allow.
	O, a pit of clay for to be made
Of the unworthiest siege.
OTHER  Will you ha' the truth on 't? If this had not been
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or like a creature native and endued
	   Methought it was very sweet
OTHER  Was he a gentleman?
OTHER  Why, he had none.
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
	   O, methought there--a--was nothing--a--meet.
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or is it some abuse and no such thing?
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
O, speak!
Our purpose may hold there.--But stay, what
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
POLONIUS  That hath made him mad.
Pulled the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
I thought thy bride-bed to have decked, sweet maid,
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat,
LAERTES  O, treble woe
LAERTES  What ceremony else?
LAERTES, [coming out of the grave]
Laertes,
I think it be no other but e'en so.
[Leaps in the grave.]
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
KING  From Hamlet? Who brought them?
KING  Pluck them asunder.
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES  Drowned? O, where?
KING
LAERTES  Lay her i' th' earth,
Lives almost by his looks, and for myself
MESSENGER
LAERTES  What ceremony else?
MESSENGER  Letters, my lord, from
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
(My virtue or my plague, be it either which),
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Of bell and burial.
Of him that brought them.
Of this posthaste and rummage in the land.
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN  Drowned, drowned.
Queen, the Council, as Polonius, and his son Laertes,
QUEEN  Sweets to the sweet, farewell!
Scene 1
Scene 2
Must there no more be done?
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Scene 2
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on
Shall I strike it with my partisan?
She should in ground unsanctified been lodged
[Reads.] High and mighty, you shall know I am set
Should have a back or second that might hold
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
So by his father lost. And this, I take it,
So hallowed and so gracious is that time.
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Speak to me.
Speak to me.
Speak of it.	[The cock crows.]
Stay and speak!--Stop it, Marcellus.
[She scatters flowers.]
[Sings.]	O, a pit of clay for to be made
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
So fast they follow. Your sister's drowned, Laertes.
Taken to wife. Nor have we herein barred
That I in forgery of shapes and tricks
That I might be the organ.
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That hurts by easing. But to the quick of th' ulcer:
That is but scratched withal. I'll touch my point
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Sailors, my lord, they say. I saw them not.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
That was and is the question of these wars.
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
The rather if you could devise it so
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Therefore, let's follow.
There lives within the very flame of love
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
The Frenchman gave you; bring you, in fine,
[The Other Man exits
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
There is a willow grows askant the brook
These to your Majesty, this to the Queen.
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The light and careless livery that it wears
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
Therewith fantastic garlands did she make
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The woman will be out.--Adieu, my lord.
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
[They exit.]
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth
This bird of dawning singeth all night long;
This same skull, sir, was, sir, Yorick's skull, the
This might be the pate of a politician which this ass
This present object made probation.
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
"Thus didst thou."
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
[They exit.]
They were given me by Claudio. He received them
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
This might be my Lord Such-a-one that praised my
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
'Tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
[They exit.]
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To business with the King more than the scope
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
	To contract--O--the time for--a--my behove,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
To his confine, and of the truth herein
To muddy death.
To offer it the show of violence,
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Too slightly timbered for so loud a wind,
To our most valiant brother--so much for him.
To show yourself indeed your father's son
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To thine own peace. If he be now returned,
'Twere better not assayed. Therefore this project
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
Unto our climatures and countrymen.
Unto that element. But long it could not be
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Upon my life, Lamord.
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands,
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
[Voltemand and Cornelius exit.]
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Of blue Olympus.
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Sharked up a list of lawless resolutes
QUEEN  Hamlet! Hamlet!
Requite him for your father.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
She is so conjunctive to my life and soul
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
That hath a stomach in 't; which is no other
The devil take thy soul!
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings--
We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We should do when we would; for this "would"
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
When down her weedy trophies and herself
Where be your gibes now? your gambols? your
Where we shall find him most convenient.
Wherein they say you shine. Your sum of parts
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
We should profane the service of the dead
What is he whose grief
When in your motion you are hot and dry
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
When thou liest howling.
Which now goes too free-footed.
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand.
Which now, the fruit unripe, sticks on the tree
Which may to you perhaps seem much unsinewed,
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
(Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
Whips out his rapier, cries "A rat, a rat,"
Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak. I'll go no
Whiles, like a puffed and reckless libertine,
Who calls me "villain"? breaks my pate across?
Wherein our Savior's birth is celebrated,
Which was declining on the milky head
While one with moderate haste might tell a
Who does it, then? His madness. If 't be so,
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Whom I will trust as I will adders fanged,
Who is 't that can inform me?
Whose grave's this, sirrah?
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose spirit with divine ambition puffed
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Whose image even but now appeared to us,
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.--
Which time she chanted snatches of old lauds,
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Whose do you think it was?
Whose blood and judgment are so well
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steeped,
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Why as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Why day is day, night night, and time is time
Why does the drum come hither?
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
	Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Why, look you there, look how it steals away!
Why, man, they did make love to this employment.
Why may not imagination trace the noble dust of
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why the man dies.--I humbly thank you, sir.
	Why, then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
Why, how now, Hamlet?
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
Why thou art thus incensed.--Let him go,
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
Why to a public count I might not go
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Will not peruse the foils, so that with ease,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will you be ruled by me?
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
Why, then, the Polack never will defend it.
Will not debate the question of this straw.
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With all my love I do commend me to you,
With arms encumbered thus, or this headshake,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
With a bare bodkin? Who would fardels bear,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With forms to his conceit--and all for nothing!
Why yet I live to say "This thing's to do,"
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
Without the sensible and true avouch
Will want true color--tears perchance for blood.
Without more motive, into every brain
With the brave beast. So far he topped my thought
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this slave's offal. Bloody, bawdy villain!
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With all my heart, and it doth much content me
Will you two help to hasten them?
Winner and loser?
With all my imperfections on my head.
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
With a sore distraction. What I have done
With bisson rheum, a clout upon that head
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
With heated visage, as against the doom,
Within the book and volume of my brain,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With variable objects, shall expel
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial
With witchcraft of his wits, with traitorous gifts--
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Work like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers (if the
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Yet what can it, when one cannot repent?
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
You come most carefully upon your hour.
You know the wager?
With this regard their currents turn awry
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
Would make them capable. [To the Ghost.] Do not
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
Your hands, come then. Th' appurtenance of welcome
Your loneliness.--We are oft to blame in this
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
You shall not go, my lord.	[They hold back Hamlet.]
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
about the sconce with a dirty shovel and will not tell
a breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest,
affair.
agreeing,
a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little.
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
You cannot call it love, for at your age
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You have been talked of since your travel much,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and
Yes, faith, heartily.
Yet needful too, for youth no less becomes
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
You are welcome, masters; welcome all.--I am glad
You, as your business and desire shall point you
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
about my heart. But it is no matter.
accent and good discretion.
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
affliction of spirit, hath sent me to you.
about of brains.
ache to think on 't.
You told us of some suit. What is 't, Laertes?
all but one, shall live. The rest shall keep as they are.
all "impawned," as you call it?
an angel, in apprehension how like a god: the
and Lords exit.]
and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
and more strange return. Hamlet.
With all the strength and armor of the mind
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot,
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Within the center.
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night,
Woo't weep, woo't fight, woo't fast, woo't tear
Within his truncheon's length, whilst they, distilled
Woo't drink up eisel, eat a crocodile?
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would quake to look on. Soft, now to my mother.
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Without the which we are pictures or mere beasts;
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
Yorick! I knew him, Horatio--a fellow of infinite
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
You go not till I set you up a glass
You, laying these slight sullies on my son,
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
You heavenly guards!--What would your gracious
Yea, from the table of my memory
You know sometimes he walks four hours together
You mainly were stirred up.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
Your leave and favor to return to France,
You must not put another scandal on him
Your sudden coming-o'er, to play with you.
Your wisdom best shall think.
am let to know it is.	[He hands Horatio a letter.]
You shall do marvelous wisely, good Reynaldo,
and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he
Your bait of falsehood take this carp of truth;
Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
and his load too.
and must th' inheritor himself have no more, ha?
and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows.
and there is much music, excellent voice, in this
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness
art to reckon my groans, but that I love thee best, O
a compelled valor, and in the grapple I boarded them.
and the Gravedigger digs and sings.]
and then, you know,
are too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for?
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages--
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so. Three of the
assurance in that. I will speak to this fellow.--
are spent.
and winnowed opinions; and do but blow them to
as thou wouldst fly death. I have words to speak in
(as we have many pocky corses nowadays that will
a thousand pound. Didst perceive?
at that.--Prithee, Horatio, tell me one thing.
as, to make true diction of him, his semblable is his
at my beck than I have thoughts to put them
a wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
attend him in the hall. He sends to know if your
awhile but in the end accepts his love.]
a whole theater of others. O, there be players that I
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With which she followed my poor father's body,
Without debatement further, more or less,
	   With true-love showers.
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly--
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Would have mourned longer!), married with my
Yes, it is already garrisoned.
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance?
	Young men will do 't, if they come to 't;
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
	   You promised me to wed."
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
You must not take for fire. From this time
all after!
and presently.
ape an apple in the corner of his jaw, first mouthed,
attractive.	[Hamlet takes a place near Ophelia.]
With--ho!--such bugs and goblins in my life,
a year. But, by 'r Lady, he must build churches, then,
back a thousand times, and now how abhorred in
bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager
became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like
be one man picked out of ten thousand.
beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. O,
be in 's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
bellowed that I have thought some of nature's
between
blood
bound for England--if your name be Horatio, as I
both sides, and the nation holds it no sin to tar
baker's daughter. Lord, we know what we are but
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals--and
bastard,
begin. Come, the croaking raven doth bellow for
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves
blessing, but, as your daughter may conceive,
body. Here's a skull now hath lien you i' th' earth
body is and go with us to the King.
beating. And, when you are asked this question
both in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
book,
branches--it is to act, to do, to perform. Argal, she
breeding but to play at loggets with them? Mine
bounteous.
breed that I know the drossy age dotes on) only got
but I cannot choose but weep to think they would
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
but I thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks
but variable service--two dishes but to one table.
cannot but make the judicious grieve, the censure
cannot keep counsel; they'll tell all.
calf there.--Be the players ready?
closet ere you go to bed.
color. I know the good king and queen have sent for
come by and by.
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
capons so.
commeddled
conveyances of his lands will scarcely lie in this box,
distemper? You do surely bar the door upon your
do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe?
eat the air, promise-crammed. You cannot feed
daughter.
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
comes in another man, takes off his crown, kisses it, pours
else. For here lies the point: if I drown myself
eyes.
fee
condole with her. The dead body is carried away. The
eight year or nine year. A tanner will last you nine
distempered.
even, sir.--
fashion i' th' earth?
fitted.
certain.
certain convocation of politic worms are e'en at
chapless and knocked about the mazard with a
chiefly loved. 'Twas Aeneas' tale to Dido, and
embracing him and he her. She kneels and makes show of
flowers. She, seeing him asleep, leaves him. Anon
fat all creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves
foe,
foolish ear.
does he suffer this mad knave now to knock him
choler.
corpse of Ophelia, with a Doctor of Divinity.]
drowned herself wittingly.
fret me, you cannot play upon me.
do a good turn for them. Let the King have the letters
diseased. But, sir, such answer as I can make, you
edge.
fellowship in a cry of players?
find him not there, seek him i' th' other
for I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens, die two
friends.
but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.
for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar is
for you, sir. It came from th' ambassador that was
from me to you.
from my lowest note to the top of my compass;
by William Shakespeare
cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall
either the mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
for your dull ass will not mend his pace with
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
changes
gallows does well. But how does it well? It does
gallows is built stronger than the church. Argal, the
commandment. If not, your pardon and my return
gallows may do well to thee. To 't again, come.
easiness.
galls his kibe.--How long hast thou been
digged. Could he dig without arms? I'll put another
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
good actor.
grave-maker?
greenly
grave-makers. They hold up Adam's profession.
hath the daintier sense.
give you some violets, but they withered all when
heart,
her.
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
his recoveries. Is this the fine of his fines and the
know from what part of the world I should be
lasts till doomsday. Go, get thee in, and fetch me a
hold their course for England; of them I have
length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The very
letters for you.
greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
him of his action of battery? Hum, this fellow might
hobby-horse is forgot."
hobby-horse, whose epitaph is "For oh, for oh, the
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows
me!
head upon her neck. He lies him down upon a bank of
might it not?
may call it herb of grace o' Sundays. You must wear
might it not?
mischance
mischief.
more.
much to tell thee. Farewell.
murderer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
murderer. Pox, leave thy damnable faces and
music. Look you, these are the stops.
name's Gonzago. The story is extant and written in
next, say "a grave-maker." The houses he makes
morrow, sweet lord! How dost thou, sweet lord?"
my father died. They say he made a good end.
naked on your kingdom. Tomorrow shall I beg leave to
of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more
now o'erreaches, one that would circumvent God,
of his purchases, and double ones too, than the
old at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave
of the right breed. If it shall please you to make me
once. How the knave jowls it to the ground as if
or a carpenter?"
good. Here stands the man; good. If the man go to
he goes; mark you that. But if the water come to him
herself in her own defense?
her soul, she's dead.
hence
him
his rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
if I could see the puppets dallying.
https://shakespeare.folger.edu/shakespeares-works/hamlet/
it. And so I thank you for your good counsel. Come,
ladies, good night, good night.	[She exits.]
mine.
my coach! Good night, ladies, good night, sweet
liest.
most beautified Ophelia--
nation
night's speech.
lay him i' th' cold ground. My brother shall know of
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
hours.
it! It is the false steward that stole his master's
it: the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
jest, of most excellent fancy. He hath bore me on his
know not what we may be. God be at your table.
him. Your worm is your only emperor for diet. We
lady's chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch
legs.
noise?
matter there.
of a king and eat of the fish that hath fed of that
his purgation would perhaps plunge him into more
man do but be merry? For look you how cheerfully
love is too unmannerly.
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
mother's admiration? Impart.
mouth,
my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung
not you ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you
my mother looks, and my father died within 's two
not yours. For my part, I do not lie in 't, yet it is
offense in 't?
little organ, yet cannot you make it speak. 'Sblood,
offense i' th' world.
of me, as if you would drive me into a toil?
ordnance are shot off.]
or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with the
but a foul and pestilent congregation of vapors.
conscience
conscience.
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
custom of exercises, and, indeed, it goes so heavily
deceived.
daughter?
delight in, the tragedians of the city.
crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis a chough,
daughter that I love passing well.
delights not me, no, nor women neither, though by
could you not?
differences, of very soft society and great showing.
discretion be your tutor. Suit the action to the
damned
delights not me"?
dog, being a good kissing carrion--Have you a
dumb shows and noise. I would have such a fellow
ere you had done.
figure?
for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
gentleman in our more rawer breath?
encounter, a kind of yeasty collection, which carries
enough. God hath given you one face, and you
eyases, that cry out on the top of question and are
firmament, this majestical roof, fretted
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging
except my life, except my life.
foils, daggers, flagons of wine, and Laertes.]
forestall their repair hither and say you are not fit.
for the very substance of the ambitious is merely
exceed you three hits. He hath laid on twelve for
for 'tis a vice to know him. He hath much
friend, look to 't.
each ear a hearer! That great baby you see there is
for thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
further.
grown honest.
gaingiving as would perhaps trouble a woman.
hadst thou!
halt for 't. What players are they?
have been in continual practice. I shall win at the
have a speech straight. Come, give us a taste of your
have seen play and heard others praise (and that
count myself a king of infinite space, were it not
dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
fashion and so berattle the common stages (so
have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of
flattered?
having th' accent of Christians nor the gait of
head.
desert.
has tears in 's eyes. Prithee, no more.
height,
for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
hell,
him while my father lived give twenty, forty, fifty,
hits.
highly), not to speak it profanely, that, neither
hold it not honesty to have it thus set down; for
hundred.
in the fool that uses it. Go make you ready.
head.
he sleeps. Say on; come to Hecuba.
his form and pressure. Now this overdone or come
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical,
in trial.
honest man, I am most dreadfully attended. But,
horses, against the which he has impawned, as I
home;
how express and admirable; in action how like
is--
it himself. There are no tongues else for 's
journeymen had made men, and not made them
hither are they coming to offer you service.
it, as many of our players do, I had as lief the
it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious,
in, imagination to give them shape, or time to act
it to you, trippingly on the tongue; but if you mouth
if philosophy could find it out.
is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
keep,
in the beaten way of friendship, what make you at
it?
knight shall use his foil and target, the lover shall
is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by
knows,
knows, what is 't to leave betimes? Let be.
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
land, and fertile. Let a beast be lord of beasts and his
like French falconers, fly at anything we see. We'll
likeness. This was sometime a paradox, but now
lines, which I would set down and insert in 't,
look upon me,
make yourselves another. You jig and amble, and
lord?
lost,
man, what Lenten entertainment the players shall
love, and by what more dear a better
man after his desert and who shall 'scape
marry a fool, for wise men know well enough what
matter if we could carry a cannon by our sides. I
last. Com'st thou to beard me in Denmark?--What,
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
meeting between him and my daughter.--My lord,
method, as wholesome as sweet and, by very much,
method in 't.--Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
mirror, and who else would trace him, his umbrage,
means of the late innovation.
modesty as cunning. I remember one said there
money bid for argument unless the poet and the
nature. For anything so o'erdone is from the purpose
now; if it be not now, yet it will come. The
laid on him by them, in his meed he's
more appear like entertainment than yours. You are
more handsome than fine. One speech in 't I
more on 't. It hath made me mad. I say we will have
move
more, for look where my abridgment comes.
my daughter. Yet he knew me not at first; he said I
morning, 'twas then indeed.
my young lady and mistress! By 'r Lady, your Ladyship
not yet out of his swaddling clouts.
now.
of our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
of very liberal conceit.
not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his
now, 'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
odds; but thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
old friend! Why, thy face is valanced since I saw thee
or so," and "gentleman."
out
own. Besides, to be demanded of a sponge, what
our withers are unwrung.
own grinning? Quite chapfallen? Now get you to my
pardon) thereunto recount the occasion of my sudden
patience.
own liberty if you deny your griefs to your friend.
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
performance,
matters cried in the top of mine) an excellent play,
nothing more.
out the heart of my mystery, you would sound me
overlooked this, give these fellows some means to the
play.
own life.
piece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
pity that great folk should have count'nance in this
play.
players; mark it.--You say right, sir, a Monday
player went to cuffs in the question.
most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable
played once i' th' university, you say?
place yourself. But if, indeed, you find him not
progress through the guts of a beggar.
proposer can charge you withal: be even and direct
pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
poisoner woos the Queen with gifts. She seems harsh
protestation unto him. He takes her up and declines his
proverb is something musty.
poison in the sleeper's ears, and leaves him. The Queen
quality. Come, a passionate speech.
readiness is all. Since no man of aught he leaves
ready now or whensoever, provided I be so able as
poisoner with some three or four come in again, seem to
reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and moving
reason.
received it, and others whose judgments in such
receive from you. We coted them on the way, and
recorder and turns to Guildenstern.] To withdraw
poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
recorders!
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and
rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me) with two
rest of my servants, for, to speak to you like an
recover his wits there. Or if he do not, 'tis no great
replication should be made by the son of a king?
returneth to dust; the dust is earth; of earth
returns, finds the King dead, makes passionate action. The
laugh, to set on some quantity of barren spectators
middle of her favors?
might,"
nature, to show virtue her own feature, scorn her
no better), their writers do them wrong to make
most best, believe it. Adieu.
my complexion.
nine, and it would come to immediate trial if your
on your head. Sir, this is the matter--
of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh
mock him not. [First Player exits.] My good friends,
nature will.
need, study a speech of some dozen or sixteen
no longer than they can sing? Will they not say
northerly.
nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it
own image, and the very age and body of the time
of goose quills and dare scarce come thither.
pace. But there is, sir, an aerie of children, little
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en to 't
most tyrannically clapped for 't. These are now the
players (as it is most like, if their means are
part in peace, the clown shall make those laugh
pronounced.
quaintly
question of the play be then to be considered.
passes between yourself and him, he shall not
quillities, his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? Why
reading.
revenge.
safely,
recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine pate full
savory, nor no matter in the phrase that might indict
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the
say,
scarce hold the laying in), he will last you some
see your kingly eyes, when I shall (first asking your
set the table on a roar? Not one now to mock your
sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution, an we had
shall be dry again.
shall be the end of my business.
sexton here, man and boy, thirty years.
shall command--or, rather, as you say, my mother.
purpose, confess thyself--
question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
shall say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall
sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of work, but
shape of a camel?
sings in grave-making.
something. Where did I leave?
spheres,
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use: 'tis for the
should impart a thing to you from his Majesty.
skull of a lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his
so. To me, it is a prison.
so.
some frame and start not so wildly from my
songs? your flashes of merriment that were wont to
souls, it touches us not. Let the galled jade wince;
sound,
speak.
speak.
strew
stoup of liquor.
take it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
take longer time.
tell that. It was that very day that young Hamlet
straight. The crowner hath sat on her and finds it
special providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be
struck her into amazement and admiration.
tardy off, though it makes the unskillful laugh,
sucked it. Thus has he (and many more of the same
that)
that I have bad dreams.
that day that our last King Hamlet overcame
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go, and
no more marriage. Those that are married already,
now, was and is to hold, as 'twere, the mirror up to
nunnery, farewell. Or if thou wilt needs marry,
of playing, whose end, both at the first and
play the fool nowhere but in 's own house. Farewell.
plum-tree gum, and that they have a plentiful lack of
pregnant sometimes his replies are! A happiness
quickly too. Farewell.
should admit no discourse to your beauty.
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very
sword,
rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who for the
that old men have gray beards, that their faces are
that's for thoughts.
the author of affection, but called it an honest
the force of honesty can translate beauty into his
than with honesty?
them,
rapiers, and Hamlet wounds Laertes.]
relish of it. I loved you not.
that often madness hits on, which reason and
the First Player.] Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can
them, for there be of them that will themselves
thereabout of it especially when he speaks of
the shadow of a dream.
the stairs into the lobby.
them in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
they ask you what it means, say you this:
observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
that's the French bet against the Danish. Why is this
thee.
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
the King's pleasure. If his fitness speaks, mine is
their even-Christian. Come, my spade. There is no
them.--
their trial, the bubbles are out.
the card, or equivocation will undo us. By the
them.
the men are as mad as he.
them, for they say an old man is twice a child.
them exclaim against their own succession?
them through and through the most fanned
the tune of the time, and, out of an habit of
they call them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid
this machine is to him, Hamlet.
thousand tenants.
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
them to controversy. There was for a while no
the trick to see 't. Did these bones cost no more the
th' worst.
together
to laugh too, though in the meantime some necessary
this soon.--Good my lord, will you see the players
tomorrow. [As Polonius and Players exit, Hamlet speaks to
torches.]
the play, I remember, pleased not the million:
these are the only men.
thick, to this favor she must come. Make her laugh
thieves of mercy, but they knew what they did: I am to
thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
this gentleman?
this line--let me see, let me see:
those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft.
this. I'll speak to him again.--What do you read, my
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I
thought,
thoughts.
three-and-twenty years.
through the arras.]
time. After your death you were better have a bad
'tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
to be last swallowed. When he needs what you have
tongue? You will to 't, sir, really.
thyself,
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
trade that he will keep out water a great while; and
to signify this to the doctor, for for me to put him to
understand the scripture? The scripture says Adam
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
this water and drown himself, it is (will he, nill he)
tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
true. Let me question more in particular. What
truepenny?
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than
turn.
'twas caviary to the general. But it was (as I
'twere Cain's jawbone, that did the first murder!
'twere--I cannot tell how. My lord, his Majesty
uncle,
unfellowed.
upon this pipe?
us
very choice Italian. You shall see anon how the
very proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offenses
us chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
vile king,
utt'rance of harmony. I have not the skill.
vile phrase. But you shall hear. Thus: [He reads.]
villain!
voice of the King himself for your succession in
tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o'
was I about to say? By the Mass, I was about to say
was an actor in Rome--
was born--he that is mad, and sent into England.
was converted might they not stop a beer barrel?
welcome. But my uncle-father and aunt-mother are
well bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used,
was a fishmonger. He is far gone. And truly, in my
well digested in the scenes, set down with as much
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
well to those that do ill. Now, thou dost ill to say the
the altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried, Alexander
was never acted, or, if it was, not above once; for
to see thee well.--Welcome, good friends.--O my
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
what of that? Your Majesty and we that have free
we make loam; and why of that loam whereto he
were to know himself.
when I was in the city? Are they so followed?
when she willfully seeks her own salvation?
which, I tell you, must show fairly outwards, should
which your modesties have not craft enough to
what it means.
whipped for o'erdoing Termagant. It out-Herods
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and
whispers
will bring thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of
will more willingly part withal--except my life,
wind is southerly, I know a hawk from a handsaw.
wisdom
with
  with Michael Poston and Rebecca Niles
with golden fire--why, it appeareth nothing to me
whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear, and the lady
with him in excellence. But to know a man well
within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
with modesty enough and likelihood to lead it, as
with some Attendants.]
with you.
with cushions, King, Queen, Osric, and all the state,
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players,
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
with your fingers and thumb, give it breath with
with the body. The King is a thing--
with you: why do you go about to recover the wind
wittingly, it argues an act, and an act hath three
words are not mine.
word, the word to the action, with this special
world to drown or hang themselves more than
worm.
would,"
were better my mother had not borne me: I am
with me whether you were sent for or no.
wit, together with most weak hams; all which, sir,
work.	[Hurts the King.]
whipping? Use them after your own honor and
with us, sir.
work?
would it might be "hangers" till then. But on. Six
wherefore I know not, lost all my mirth, forgone all
would not much approve me. Well, sir?
would seem to know my stops, you would pluck
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
year.
you?
you,
would dozy th' arithmetic of memory, and yet but
yaw neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust? Man
you both?
you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy
you.	[She exits.]
you could go backward.
you down,
you love me, hold not off.
you make of me! You would play upon me, you
you.
you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make
young Osric, who brings back to him that you
you play "The Murder of Gonzago"?
your smiling you seem to say so.
your wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no
your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead
your rue with a difference. There's a daisy. I would
your bounty. Take them in.
your clowns speak no more than is set down for
yourself, sir, shall grow old as I am, if, like a crab,
your mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent
you say--
youth, I suffered much extremity for love, very near
you, though I know to divide him inventorially
nter 
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord.	[They exit.] 
 
H 
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord.	[They exit.] 
 
H 
HORATIO  Is it a cust 
HORATIO  Is it a cust 
HAMLET  Ay, marry, is 't, 
But, to my m 
HAMLET  Ay, marry, is 't, 
But, to my m 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HORATIO 
It is a nipping and an eager air.  
HORATIO 
It is a nipping and an eager air.  
 
HAM 
 
HAM 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Hamlet, Horatio, an 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Hamlet, Horatio, an 
HORATI 
HORATI 
HORATIO 
Indeed, I  
HORATIO 
Indeed, I  
MARCELLUS  No, it is struck. 
 
MARCELLUS  No, it is struck. 
 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
HAMLET  What's the matter now? 
 
QUEEN 
Have 
HAMLET  What's the matter now? 
 
QUEEN 
Have 
HORATIO 
Most constantly. 
 
HAMLET  I 
HORATIO 
Most constantly. 
 
HAMLET  I 
QUEEN 
Have you forgot me? 
 
HAMLET 
QUEEN 
Have you forgot me? 
 
HAMLET 
HAMLET  Very like. Stayed it long? 
 
HORATI 
HAMLET  Very like. Stayed it long? 
 
HORATI 
QUEE 
QUEE 
HAMLET  
HAMLET  
HORATIO  It w 
HORATIO  It w 
POLONIUS, [behind the arras] 
POLONIUS, [behind the arras] 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
QUEEN 
What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not 
QUEEN 
What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not 
HAMLET  And  
HAMLET  And  
HORATIO 
Nay, very pale. 
 
HAMLET  And 
HORATIO 
Nay, very pale. 
 
HAMLET  And 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HORATIO 
While one with moderate haste mig 
HORATIO 
While one with moderate haste mig 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Queen and Pol 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Queen and Pol 
HAMLET  I will watc 
HAMLET  I will watc 
 
POL 
 
POL 
HAMLET 
If it assume my noble father' 
HAMLET 
If it assume my noble father' 
 
HAMLET 
Now might I do it pat, n 
 
HAMLET 
Now might I do it pat, n 
KING, [rising]  
KING, [rising]  
HORATIO  I warrant it will. 
 
HA 
HORATIO  I warrant it will. 
 
HA 
BARNARDO/MARCELLUS  Longer, lo 
BARNARDO/MARCELLUS  Longer, lo 
HAMLET  Now, mother, what's the 
HAMLET  Now, mother, what's the 
HAMLET 
Mother, you have my father m 
HAMLET 
Mother, you have my father m 
QUEEN 
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much  
QUEEN 
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much  
 
HAMLET  Now, mother, what's the matt 
 
HAMLET  Now, mother, what's the matt 
HAMLET  His 
HAMLET  His 
HORATIO 
HORATIO 
QUEEN  I'll warrant you. Fear me not. Withdr 
QUEEN  I'll warrant you. Fear me not. Withdr 
[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET  Now, mother, w 
[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET  Now, mother, w 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings, 
 
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings, 
 
[Enter Ghost.] 
 
Save me and hover o'er 
[Enter Ghost.] 
 
Save me and hover o'er 
HAMLET  Nay, but to live 
In the rank sweat  
HAMLET  Nay, but to live 
In the rank sweat  
HAMLET  
HAMLET  
HAMLET  'Tis very strange. 
 
HORATIO 
As I d 
HAMLET  'Tis very strange. 
 
HORATIO 
As I d 
QUEEN  O, speak to me no more! 
These words 
QUEEN  O, speak to me no more! 
These words 
QUEEN  Alas, he's mad. 
 
HAMLET 
Do yo 
QUEEN  Alas, he's mad. 
 
HAMLET 
Do yo 
MARCELLUS 
My lord, upon the platform  
MARCELLUS 
My lord, upon the platform  
HAMLET 
On him, on him! Look you how  
HAMLET 
On him, on him! Look you how  
QUEEN  To whom do you speak this? 
 
HAMLET  D 
QUEEN  To whom do you speak this? 
 
HAMLET  D 
HAMLET  But where was this? 
 
MARCELLU 
HAMLET  But where was this? 
 
MARCELLU 
QUEEN  Alas, how is 't with you, 
That yo 
QUEEN  Alas, how is 't with you, 
That yo 
HAMLET 
Do you not come your tardy son to chi 
HAMLET 
Do you not come your tardy son to chi 
HORATIO  My lord, I did, 
B 
HORATIO  My lord, I did, 
B 
GHOST  Do not forg 
GHOST  Do not forg 
HAMLET 
Did you not speak to it? 
 
HORATI 
HAMLET 
Did you not speak to it? 
 
HORATI 
HAMLET  Then saw you not his face? 
 
 
HAMLET  Then saw you not his face? 
 
 
ALL  My lord, from head to foot. 
 
HAML 
ALL  My lord, from head to foot. 
 
HAML 
HAMLET  From top to toe? 
 
ALL  My lord, 
HAMLET  From top to toe? 
 
ALL  My lord, 
HAMLET 
A bloody deed--almost as bad, good mot 
HAMLET 
A bloody deed--almost as bad, good mot 
QUEEN 
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this! 
 
QUEEN 
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this! 
 
HAMLET  What, looked he frowningly? 
 
HORATIO 
 
HAMLET  What, looked he frowningly? 
 
HORATIO 
 
POLONIUS, [behind the arras] 
O, 
POLONIUS, [behind the arras] 
O, 
HORATIO 
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver  
HORATIO 
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver  
QUEEN  O me, what hast thou done? 
 
HAML 
QUEEN  O me, what hast thou done? 
 
HAML 
HAMLET  Nay, I know not. Is it the 
HAMLET  Nay, I know not. Is it the 
HAMLET  Such an act 
That blurs the gra 
HAMLET  Such an act 
That blurs the gra 
HAMLET  Indeed, sirs, but this 
HAMLET  Indeed, sirs, but this 
QUEEN  O Hamlet, speak no more! 
Thou turn's 
QUEEN  O Hamlet, speak no more! 
Thou turn's 
QUEEN  Ay me, what act 
That roars  
QUEEN  Ay me, what act 
That roars  
HAMLET 
Look here upon this picture and on th 
HAMLET 
Look here upon this picture and on th 
QUEEN 
As kill a king? 
 
HAMLET 
QUEEN 
As kill a king? 
 
HAMLET 
ALL  Armed, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  From top  
ALL  Armed, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  From top  
HAMLET 
Armed, say you? 
 
ALL  Arme 
HAMLET 
Armed, say you? 
 
ALL  Arme 
QUEEN 
What have I done, that thou 
QUEEN 
What have I done, that thou 
ALL  We do, my lord. 
 
HAMLET 
Armed, say 
ALL  We do, my lord. 
 
HAMLET 
Armed, say 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it was my word. 
[H 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it was my word. 
[H 
[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET 
Now m 
[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET 
Now m 
ROSENCRANTZ  What, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  Mak 
ROSENCRANTZ  What, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  Mak 
HAMLET  Make you a wholesome answer. My w 
HAMLET  Make you a wholesome answer. My w 
HAMLET  O wonderful son that can so ' 
HAMLET  O wonderful son that can so ' 
ROSENCRANTZ  Then thus she says: your behavior 
ROSENCRANTZ  Then thus she says: your behavior 
GUILDENSTERN  The Queen your mother, in  
GUILDENSTERN  The Queen your mother, in  
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HAMLET  You are welcome. 
 
GUILD 
HAMLET  You are welcome. 
 
GUILD 
GUILDENSTERN  Nay, good my lord, this cour 
GUILDENSTERN  Nay, good my lord, this cour 
ROSENCRANTZ  How can that be, when you have  
ROSENCRANTZ  How can that be, when you have  
HAMLET  Ay, sir, but "While the grass gro 
HAMLET  Ay, sir, but "While the grass gro 
[Ente 
[Ente 
HAMLET  Sir, I lack advancement. 
 
R 
HAMLET  Sir, I lack advancement. 
 
R 
HAMLET  We shall obey, were she ten tim 
HAMLET  We shall obey, were she ten tim 
ROSENCRANTZ  She desires to speak wit 
ROSENCRANTZ  She desires to speak wit 
ROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord, what is your cause o 
ROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord, what is your cause o 
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you once did love m 
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you once did love m 
HAMLET  And do still, by these pickers and st 
HAMLET  And do still, by these pickers and st 
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, put your di 
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, put your di 
HAMLET  O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost 
HAMLET  O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost 
HORATIO  Very well, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  
HORATIO  Very well, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  
HORATIO  I did very well note him. 
 
HAML 
HORATIO  I did very well note him. 
 
HAML 
HAMLET  Upon the talk of the poisonin 
HAMLET  Upon the talk of the poisonin 
HORATIO  Half a share. 
 
HAMLET  
HORATIO  Half a share. 
 
HAMLET  
HAMLET 
	Why, let the strucken deer go we 
HAMLET 
	Why, let the strucken deer go we 
HORATIO  You might have rhymed. 
 
HORATIO  You might have rhymed. 
 
OPHELIA 
I s 
OPHELIA 
I s 
GUILDENSTERN  Is in his retirement marvel 
GUILDENSTERN  Is in his retirement marvel 
HAMLET  With drink, sir? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  No, my 
HAMLET  With drink, sir? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  No, my 
HAMLET  Your wisdom  
HAMLET  Your wisdom  
GUILDENSTERN  No, my lord, with chole 
GUILDENSTERN  No, my lord, with chole 
HAMLET  Ay 
HAMLET  Ay 
 
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouch 
 
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouch 
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 
 
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 
 
GUILDENSTE 
GUILDENSTE 
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouchsafe  
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouchsafe  
HAMLET  Sir, a whole history. 
 
G 
HAMLET  Sir, a whole history. 
 
G 
LAERTES 
LAERTES 
POLONIUS  I will say so. 
 
HAMLET  
POLONIUS  I will say so. 
 
HAMLET  
HAMLET  "By and by" is easily said. L 
HAMLET  "By and by" is easily said. L 
 
KING 
I like him not, nor stands it safe with u 
 
KING 
I like him not, nor stands it safe with u 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter Kin 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter Kin 
POLONIUS  It is backed like a weas 
POLONIUS  It is backed like a weas 
HAMLET  
HAMLET  
HAMLET  Or like a whale. 
 
POLON 
HAMLET  Or like a whale. 
 
POLON 
HAMLET 
Your loves, as mine to y 
HAMLET 
Your loves, as mine to y 
 
POLONIUS 
My lor 
 
POLONIUS 
My lor 
POLONIUS 
My lord 
POLONIUS 
My lord 
ROSENCRANTZ  
ROSENCRANTZ  
ALL  Our duty to yo 
ALL  Our duty to yo 
KING 
Arm you, I pray you, to this 
KING 
Arm you, I pray you, to this 
GUILDENSTERN  We will ourselves 
GUILDENSTERN  We will ourselves 
ROSENCRANTZ 
The single and pecul 
ROSENCRANTZ 
The single and pecul 
HAMLET  I do beseech you. 
 
GUILDE 
HAMLET  I do beseech you. 
 
GUILDE 
LAERTE 
LAERTE 
HAMLET  It is as easy as lying. Govern  
HAMLET  It is as easy as lying. Govern  
OPHEL 
OPHEL 
GUILDENSTERN  O, my lord, if my duty  
GUILDENSTERN  O, my lord, if my duty  
HAMLET  I pray you. 
 
GUILDENSTER 
HAMLET  I pray you. 
 
GUILDENSTER 
HAMLET  I do not well understand that. W 
HAMLET  I do not well understand that. W 
GUILDENSTERN  My lord, I cannot. 
 
HAMLET   
GUILDENSTERN  My lord, I cannot. 
 
HAMLET   
LAERTES 
My necessaries are embarked. F 
LAERTES 
My necessaries are embarked. F 
HAMLET  Do you see yonder cloud that's 
HAMLET  Do you see yonder cloud that's 
HAMLET  Methinks it is like a weasel 
HAMLET  Methinks it is like a weasel 
 
LAERTES 
My necessaries are embarke 
 
LAERTES 
My necessaries are embarke 
POLONIUS  By th' Mass, and 'tis l 
POLONIUS  By th' Mass, and 'tis l 
GUILDEN 
GUILDEN 
HAMLET  Why, look you now, how unw 
HAMLET  Why, look you now, how unw 
POLONIUS  My lord, the Queen would speak w 
POLONIUS  My lord, the Queen would speak w 
[Enter Polonius.] 
 
God bless you, sir 
[Enter Polonius.] 
 
God bless you, sir 
God bless you, sir. 
 
POLONIUS  My lord,  
God bless you, sir. 
 
POLONIUS  My lord,  
HORATIO 
Do not, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, wha 
HORATIO 
Do not, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, wha 
HAMLET  Into my grave? 
 
POLONIUS  Indeed, tha 
HAMLET  Into my grave? 
 
POLONIUS  Indeed, tha 
POLONIUS  Indeed, that's out of the air. [As 
POLONIUS  Indeed, that's out of the air. [As 
POLONIUS  Fare you well, my lord. 
 
HA 
POLONIUS  Fare you well, my lord. 
 
HA 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
POLONIUS  What is the matter, my lord? 
 
POLONIUS  What is the matter, my lord? 
 
POLONIUS, [aside]  Though this be madn 
POLONIUS, [aside]  Though this be madn 
POLONIUS  I mean the matter that you read,  
POLONIUS  I mean the matter that you read,  
HAMLET  Slanders, sir; for the satiri 
HAMLET  Slanders, sir; for the satiri 
ROSENCRANTZ, [to Polonius]  God save  
ROSENCRANTZ, [to Polonius]  God save  
GUILDENSTERN  My honored lord. 
 
R 
GUILDENSTERN  My honored lord. 
 
R 
HAMLET  My excellent good friends! How do 
HAMLET  My excellent good friends! How do 
ROSENCRANTZ  My most dear lord. 
 
HAMLET  
ROSENCRANTZ  My most dear lord. 
 
HAMLET  
POLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord Hamlet 
POLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord Hamlet 
HAMLET  
HAMLET  
 
POLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord Hamlet 
 
POLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord Hamlet 
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear. 
 
HAMLET 
Re 
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear. 
 
HAMLET 
Re 
[Enter Gui 
[Enter Gui 
POLON 
POLON 
REYNA 
REYNA 
POLONIUS  That's very true, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  For if 
POLONIUS  That's very true, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  For if 
HAMLET  Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes,  
HAMLET  Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes,  
HAMLET  Excellent well. You are a fishmonge 
HAMLET  Excellent well. You are a fishmonge 
POLONIUS  
POLONIUS  
HA 
HA 
HAMLET  For if the sun breed maggots in a d 
HAMLET  For if the sun breed maggots in a d 
 
POLONIUS 
Give him this money and these  
 
POLONIUS 
Give him this money and these  
HAMLET  Words, words, words. 
 
POLONIUS  What i 
HAMLET  Words, words, words. 
 
POLONIUS  What i 
ACT 2 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
 
ACT 2 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter old Polonius with  
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter old Polonius with  
POLONIUS 
Give him this money and the 
POLONIUS 
Give him this money and the 
POLONIUS  I have, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  
POLONIUS  I have, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  
POLONIUS 
You shall do marvelous wisely, go 
POLONIUS 
You shall do marvelous wisely, go 
POLONIUS, [aside]  How say you by that? Sti 
POLONIUS, [aside]  How say you by that? Sti 
REYNALDO  I will, my lord. 
 
POLONIU 
REYNALDO  I will, my lord. 
 
POLONIU 
HAMLET  Let her not walk i' th' sun. 
HAMLET  Let her not walk i' th' sun. 
ROSENCRANTZ  Truly, and I hold ambition of so a 
ROSENCRANTZ  Truly, and I hold ambition of so a 
HORATIO  Propose the oath, my lord. 
 
 
HORATIO  Propose the oath, my lord. 
 
 
ROSENCRANTZ/GUILDENSTERN  We'll wait u 
ROSENCRANTZ/GUILDENSTERN  We'll wait u 
HAMLET  Then are our beggars bodies, and  
HAMLET  Then are our beggars bodies, and  
HAMLET  O God, I could be bounded in a nut 
HAMLET  O God, I could be bounded in a nut 
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear. 
 
HAMLET 
Hic et 
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear. 
 
HAMLET 
Hic et 
HAMLET 
Never to speak of this tha 
HAMLET 
Never to speak of this tha 
GUILDENSTERN  Which dreams, indeed, are am 
GUILDENSTERN  Which dreams, indeed, are am 
HAMLET  A dream itself is but a shadow.  
HAMLET  A dream itself is but a shadow.  
HAMLET  No such matter. I will not sort yo 
HAMLET  No such matter. I will not sort yo 
GUILDENSTERN  What should we say, my lord? 
GUILDENSTERN  What should we say, my lord? 
HAMLET 
Upon my sword. 
 
MARCELLUS  
HAMLET 
Upon my sword. 
 
MARCELLUS  
MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord, in faith. 
 
 
MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord, in faith. 
 
 
HAMLET  Anything but to th' purpose. You we 
HAMLET  Anything but to th' purpose. You we 
MARCELLUS  We have sworn, my lord, already. 
MARCELLUS  We have sworn, my lord, already. 
GHOST [cries under the stage]  Swear. 
 
H 
GHOST [cries under the stage]  Swear. 
 
H 
HAMLET 
Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? 
HAMLET 
Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? 
HAMLET  Beggar that I am, I am even po 
HAMLET  Beggar that I am, I am even po 
ROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lord, no  
ROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lord, no  
HAMLET  Indeed, upon my sword, indeed. 
 
 
HAMLET  Indeed, upon my sword, indeed. 
 
 
HAMLET 
And therefore as a stranger give i 
HAMLET 
And therefore as a stranger give i 
HAMLET  In the secret parts of Fortune 
HAMLET  In the secret parts of Fortune 
HORATIO 
O day and night, but this is  
HORATIO 
O day and night, but this is  
ROSENCRANTZ  None, my lord, but that the  
ROSENCRANTZ  None, my lord, but that the  
GUILDENSTERN  Faith, her privates we. 
GUILDENSTERN  Faith, her privates we. 
GUILDENSTERN 
Happy in that we are not over 
GUILDENSTERN 
Happy in that we are not over 
ROSENCRANTZ 
As the indifferen 
ROSENCRANTZ 
As the indifferen 
HAMLET  Then you liv 
HAMLET  Then you liv 
HAMLET  Nor the soles of her shoe? 
 
ROSENCR 
HAMLET  Nor the soles of her shoe? 
 
ROSENCR 
ROSENCRANTZ  We t 
ROSENCRANTZ  We t 
HAMLET  A goodly one, in which there are ma 
HAMLET  A goodly one, in which there are ma 
HA 
HA 
HAMLET 
Hic et ubique? Then we'll shi 
HAMLET 
Hic et ubique? Then we'll shi 
GUILDENSTERN  Prison, my lord 
GUILDENSTERN  Prison, my lord 
HAMLET  Then is doomsday near. But your n 
HAMLET  Then is doomsday near. But your n 
HAMLET 
Well said, old mole. Canst work i' t 
HAMLET 
Well said, old mole. Canst work i' t 
ROSENCRANTZ  Then is the world one.  
ROSENCRANTZ  Then is the world one.  
HAMLET  Denmark's a prison. 
 
ROSENCRANT 
HAMLET  Denmark's a prison. 
 
ROSENCRANT 
GHOST, 
GHOST, 
OPHELIA 
O, my lord, my lord, I have been 
OPHELIA 
O, my lord, my lord, I have been 
KING 
Thyself do grace to them and brin 
KING 
Thyself do grace to them and brin 
[Enter Ophelia.] 
 
How now, Ophelia,  
[Enter Ophelia.] 
 
How now, Ophelia,  
How now, Ophelia, what's the matter? 
 
OP 
How now, Ophelia, what's the matter? 
 
OP 
OPHELIA 
My lord, as I was sew 
OPHELIA 
My lord, as I was sew 
POLONIUS 
Give first  
POLONIUS 
Give first  
POLONIUS  With what, i' th' name of God 
POLONIUS  With what, i' th' name of God 
KING 
O, speak of that! That do I long to he 
KING 
O, speak of that! That do I long to he 
REYNALDO  I shall, my lord. 
 
PO 
REYNALDO  I shall, my lord. 
 
PO 
Welcome, my good friends. 
Say, Volte 
Welcome, my good friends. 
Say, Volte 
POLONIUS 
Observe his inclination in yourself 
POLONIUS 
Observe his inclination in yourself 
VOLTEMAND 
Most fair return of greetings and  
VOLTEMAND 
Most fair return of greetings and  
PO 
PO 
QUEEN 
I doubt it is no other but the main-- 
H 
QUEEN 
I doubt it is no other but the main-- 
H 
KING 
 
KING 
 
REYNALDO  Well, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
Fa 
REYNALDO  Well, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
Fa 
KING 
Thou still hast been the f 
KING 
Thou still hast been the f 
QUEEN 
Good gentlemen, he hath much t 
QUEEN 
Good gentlemen, he hath much t 
POLONIUS 
Come, go with me. I will g 
POLONIUS 
Come, go with me. I will g 
RO 
RO 
POLONIUS  That hath made him mad. 
I am s 
POLONIUS  That hath made him mad. 
I am s 
Scene 2 
======= 
[Flourish. Enter King a 
Scene 2 
======= 
[Flourish. Enter King a 
OPHELIA 
No, my good lord, but as yo 
OPHELIA 
No, my good lord, but as yo 
KING 
Welcome 
KING 
Welcome 
KING 
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Gui 
KING 
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Gui 
PO 
PO 
POLONIUS 
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my  
POLONIUS 
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my  
OPHE 
OPHE 
OPHELIA 
He took me by the wrist and hel 
OPHELIA 
He took me by the wrist and hel 
QUE 
QUE 
GUILDENSTERN 
Heavens make our presenc 
GUILDENSTERN 
Heavens make our presenc 
POLONIUS  What said he? 
 
OPHELIA 
He took me 
POLONIUS  What said he? 
 
OPHELIA 
He took me 
REYNALDO  Good my lord. 
 
POLONI 
REYNALDO  Good my lord. 
 
POLONI 
POLONIUS 
You know sometimes he walk 
POLONIUS 
You know sometimes he walk 
QUEEN  So he does indeed. 
 
POLONIUS 
At such a 
QUEEN  So he does indeed. 
 
POLONIUS 
At such a 
POLONIUS 
Faith, no, as you may s 
POLONIUS 
Faith, no, as you may s 
POLO 
POLO 
QUEEN  It may be, very 
QUEEN  It may be, very 
KING  Not that 
KING  Not that 
POLONIUS 
Take this from this, if t 
POLONIUS 
Take this from this, if t 
QUEE 
QUEE 
REYNALDO  Ay, very well, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
REYNALDO  Ay, very well, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
HAMLET  Well, God-a-mercy. 
 
POLONIUS   
HAMLET  Well, God-a-mercy. 
 
POLONIUS   
POLONIUS 
Away, I do beseech you b 
POLONIUS 
Away, I do beseech you b 
POLONIUS 
"And, in part, him, but," y 
POLONIUS 
"And, in part, him, but," y 
KING  We will try it. 
 
[Enter Haml 
KING  We will try it. 
 
[Enter Haml 
POLONIUS  Ay, or drinking, fencing,  
POLONIUS  Ay, or drinking, fencing,  
 
QUEEN 
But look where sadly the poor wretch  
 
QUEEN 
But look where sadly the poor wretch  
REYNALDO  As gaming, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS  A 
REYNALDO  As gaming, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS  A 
[Enter Hamlet reading on a book.] 
 
 
QU 
[Enter Hamlet reading on a book.] 
 
 
QU 
QUEEN  Came this from Hamlet to her? 
  
QUEEN  Came this from Hamlet to her? 
  
POLONIUS 
Good madam, stay awhile. I will b 
POLONIUS 
Good madam, stay awhile. I will b 
PO 
PO 
POLONIUS 
Madam, I swear I use no art at 
POLONIUS 
Madam, I swear I use no art at 
KING  
KING  
POLONIUS  God be wi' you. Fare you well. 
  
POLONIUS  God be wi' you. Fare you well. 
  
QUEEN  More matter with less art. 
 
POLON 
QUEEN  More matter with less art. 
 
POLON 
REYNALDO 
My lord, I have. 
 
POLONIUS  God be w 
REYNALDO 
My lord, I have. 
 
POLONIUS  God be w 
POLONIUS  This business is well  
POLONIUS  This business is well  
REYNALDO  Ay, my lord, I would know th 
REYNALDO  Ay, my lord, I would know th 
POLONIUS  Marry, sir, here's my dr 
POLONIUS  Marry, sir, here's my dr 
REYNALDO  But, my good lord-- 
 
POLONIUS  
REYNALDO  But, my good lord-- 
 
POLONIUS  
POLONIUS  Wherefore should you do this? 
POLONIUS  Wherefore should you do this? 
KING, [to Queen]  Do you think 'tis  
KING, [to Queen]  Do you think 'tis  
KING  But how hath she received his l 
KING  But how hath she received his l 
POLONIUS  And then, sir, does he this,  
POLONIUS  And then, sir, does he this,  
REYNALDO  Very good, my lord. 
 
POL 
REYNALDO  Very good, my lord. 
 
POL 
POLONIUS 
I would fain prove so. But  
POLONIUS 
I would fain prove so. But  
POLONIUS  What do you think of me? 
 
KING 
 
POLONIUS  What do you think of me? 
 
KING 
 
KING 
As of a man faithful and honorable.  
KING 
As of a man faithful and honorable.  
ROSENCRANTZ  To what end, my lord? 
 
H 
ROSENCRANTZ  To what end, my lord? 
 
H 
GHOST 
Revenge his foul and most unnatural m 
GHOST 
Revenge his foul and most unnatural m 
HAMLET  O God! 
 
GHOST 
Revenge his foul a 
HAMLET  O God! 
 
GHOST 
Revenge his foul a 
ACT 3 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Kin 
ACT 3 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Kin 
 
ACT 3 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
=======  
 
ACT 3 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
=======  
GHOST  I find thee apt; 
And duller should 
GHOST  I find thee apt; 
And duller should 
HAMLET 
Ay, so, good-bye to you. 
[Rose 
HAMLET 
Ay, so, good-bye to you. 
[Rose 
HAMLET  Murder? 
 
GHOST 
Murde 
HAMLET  Murder? 
 
GHOST 
Murde 
HAMLET 
Haste me to know 't, that I, with  
HAMLET 
Haste me to know 't, that I, with  
GHOST 
Murder most foul, as in the be 
GHOST 
Murder most foul, as in the be 
KING 
And can you by no drift of con 
KING 
And can you by no drift of con 
GHOST 
Pity me not, but lend thy s 
GHOST 
Pity me not, but lend thy s 
ROSENCRANTZ 
He does confess he feel 
ROSENCRANTZ 
He does confess he feel 
HAMLET  Alas, poor ghost! 
 
GHOST 
Pit 
HAMLET  Alas, poor ghost! 
 
GHOST 
Pit 
 
KING 
And can you by no drift of confer 
 
KING 
And can you by no drift of confer 
GHO 
GHO 
HAMLET  Speak. I am bound to hear. 
 
GHOS 
HAMLET  Speak. I am bound to hear. 
 
GHOS 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King, Queen, Polonius 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King, Queen, Polonius 
ROSE 
ROSE 
HAMLET  "The mobled queen"? 
 
POLONI 
HAMLET  "The mobled queen"? 
 
POLONI 
PO 
PO 
FIRST PLAYER 
Run barefoot up and  
FIRST PLAYER 
Run barefoot up and  
FIRST PLAYER  Anon he finds him 
Stri 
FIRST PLAYER  Anon he finds him 
Stri 
POLONIUS  'Fore God, my lord, well spok 
POLONIUS  'Fore God, my lord, well spok 
FIRST PLAYER 
But who, ah woe, had seen  
FIRST PLAYER 
But who, ah woe, had seen  
POLONIUS  This is too long. 
 
HAMLET  I 
POLONIUS  This is too long. 
 
HAMLET  I 
HAMLET  It shall to the barber's with your b 
HAMLET  It shall to the barber's with your b 
HAMLET  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the  
HAMLET  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the  
HAMLET  O, my prophetic soul! My unc 
HAMLET  O, my prophetic soul! My unc 
HAMLET  We'll ha 't tomorrow n 
HAMLET  We'll ha 't tomorrow n 
FIRS 
FIRS 
FIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  We'll h 
FIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  We'll h 
HAMLET  God's bodykins, man, much  
HAMLET  God's bodykins, man, much  
POLONIUS  My lord, I will use them  
POLONIUS  My lord, I will use them  
GHOST 
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate 
GHOST 
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate 
POLONIUS  Come, sirs. 
 
HAMLET  Follo 
POLONIUS  Come, sirs. 
 
HAMLET  Follo 
HAMLET  Follow him, friends. We'll h 
HAMLET  Follow him, friends. We'll h 
HAMLET  My fate cries out 
And makes eac 
HAMLET  My fate cries out 
And makes eac 
KING, [aside]  O, 'tis too true! 
How smart a las 
KING, [aside]  O, 'tis too true! 
How smart a las 
POLONIUS 
I hear him coming. Let's withdraw,  
POLONIUS 
I hear him coming. Let's withdraw,  
HORATIO 
Be ruled. You shall not go. 
 
HAMLE 
HORATIO 
Be ruled. You shall not go. 
 
HAMLE 
QUEEN  I shall obey you. 
And for y 
QUEEN  I shall obey you. 
And for y 
MARCELLUS 
Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thu 
MARCELLUS 
Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thu 
POLONIUS 
Ophelia, walk you here.--Graciou 
POLONIUS 
Ophelia, walk you here.--Graciou 
HORATIO 
He waxes desperate with imaginatio 
HORATIO 
He waxes desperate with imaginatio 
OPHELIA  Madam, I wish it may. 
[Queen ex 
OPHELIA  Madam, I wish it may. 
[Queen ex 
HAMLET  Hold off your hands. 
 
HO 
HAMLET  Hold off your hands. 
 
HO 
OPHELIA  Good my lord, 
How does your Ho 
OPHELIA  Good my lord, 
How does your Ho 
HAMLET  I humbly thank you, well. 
 
OPHELIA 
My lor 
HAMLET  I humbly thank you, well. 
 
OPHELIA 
My lor 
OPHELIA 
My lord, I have remembrances of  
OPHELIA 
My lord, I have remembrances of  
HAMLET  Why, what should be the fear? 
I do  
HAMLET  Why, what should be the fear? 
I do  
HORATIO 
What if it tempt you toward t 
HORATIO 
What if it tempt you toward t 
MARCELLUS 
You shall not go, my lord.	[They  
MARCELLUS 
You shall not go, my lord.	[They  
[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET 
To be or not  
[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET 
To be or not  
HAML 
HAML 
 
HAMLET 
To be or not to be--that is the que 
 
HAMLET 
To be or not to be--that is the que 
HAMLET 
To be or not to be--that  
HAMLET 
To be or not to be--that  
GUILDENSTERN 
But with much forcing of h 
GUILDENSTERN 
But with much forcing of h 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Niggard of question, but o 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Niggard of question, but o 
 
HAMLET 
Whither wilt thou lead me? Spe 
 
HAMLET 
Whither wilt thou lead me? Spe 
HAMLET 
Whither wilt thou lead me? Spea 
HAMLET 
Whither wilt thou lead me? Spea 
GHOST 
Mark me. 
 
HAMLET  I will. 
 
GHOST 
Mark me. 
 
HAMLET  I will. 
 
GHOST  My hour is almost come 
When I to sulf 
GHOST  My hour is almost come 
When I to sulf 
ROSENCRANTZ  Most like a gentleman. 
 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  Most like a gentleman. 
 
 
MARCELLUS 
Something is rotte 
MARCELLUS 
Something is rotte 
KING  Sweet Gertrude, leave us t 
KING  Sweet Gertrude, leave us t 
ROSENCRANTZ 
We shall, my lor 
ROSENCRANTZ 
We shall, my lor 
Scene 
Scene 
QUEEN  Did you assay him to any pastime? 
 
 
QUEEN  Did you assay him to any pastime? 
 
 
HORA 
HORA 
MARCELLUS  Nay, let's follow him. 
[They exit.] 
  
MARCELLUS  Nay, let's follow him. 
[They exit.] 
  
POLONIUS  'Tis most true, 
And he beseeched 
POLONIUS  'Tis most true, 
And he beseeched 
HAMLET 
 
HAMLET 
 
HAMLET  Is 't possible 
HAMLET  Is 't possible 
GUIL 
GUIL 
HAMLET  How comes it? Do they grow rusty? 
  
HAMLET  How comes it? Do they grow rusty? 
  
HAMLET 
I  
HAMLET 
I  
HAMLET  What, are they children? Who mainta 
HAMLET  What, are they children? Who mainta 
HORAT 
HORAT 
HAMLET  Gentlemen, you are welcom 
HAMLET  Gentlemen, you are welcom 
HAML 
HAML 
GUILDENSTERN  In what, my dear lo 
GUILDENSTERN  In what, my dear lo 
HAMLET 
There's never a villain dwe 
HAMLET 
There's never a villain dwe 
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, that they do, my l 
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, that they do, my l 
HAMLET  Why, right, you are in the right. 
HAMLET  Why, right, you are in the right. 
GUILDENSTERN  There are the player 
GUILDENSTERN  There are the player 
HAMLET  It is not very strange; for my uncl 
HAMLET  It is not very strange; for my uncl 
ROSEN 
ROSEN 
HAMLET, [aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye o 
HAMLET, [aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye o 
HAML 
HAML 
HAMLET 
Never make known what you have s 
HAMLET 
Never make known what you have s 
HAMLET  That you must teach me. But let  
HAMLET  That you must teach me. But let  
HORAT 
HORAT 
HAMLET  Nay, but swear 't. 
 
HORATIO 
HAMLET  Nay, but swear 't. 
 
HORATIO 
HORA 
HORA 
HAMLET  How chances it they travel? Their resi 
HAMLET  How chances it they travel? Their resi 
HORATIO  There's no offense, my lord. 
 
HA 
HORATIO  There's no offense, my lord. 
 
HA 
HAMLET  Do they hold the same estimati 
HAMLET  Do they hold the same estimati 
ROSENCRANTZ  I think their inhibiti 
ROSENCRANTZ  I think their inhibiti 
HAMLET 
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but 
HAMLET 
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but 
ROSEN 
ROSEN 
ROSENCRANTZ   
ROSENCRANTZ   
HAMLET  He that plays the king s 
HAMLET  He that plays the king s 
MARCE 
MARCE 
HAMLET  Why, 
	One fair daughter, a 
HAMLET  Why, 
	One fair daughter, a 
HORA 
HORA 
HAMLET  So be it. 
 
MARCELLUS  Illo 
HAMLET  So be it. 
 
MARCELLUS  Illo 
POLONIUS  The best actors in the wo 
POLONIUS  The best actors in the wo 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
HORATIO  Heavens secure him! 
 
HAMLE 
HORATIO  Heavens secure him! 
 
HAMLE 
[Enter the Pla 
[Enter the Pla 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
FIRST PLAYER  What speech, m 
FIRST PLAYER  What speech, m 
HAMLET  Am I not i' th' r 
HAMLET  Am I not i' th' r 
POLON 
POLON 
POLONIUS  If you call me "Jephth 
POLONIUS  If you call me "Jephth 
HAMLET  Nay, that follows not. 
 
PO 
HAMLET  Nay, that follows not. 
 
PO 
HAMLET  No, you will reveal it. 
 
HAMLET  No, you will reveal it. 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  Hapl 
ROSENCRANTZ  Hapl 
HAMLET  I will prophesy he comes t 
HAMLET  I will prophesy he comes t 
MARCE 
MARCE 
HAMLET 
How say you, then? Would heart 
HAMLET 
How say you, then? Would heart 
HORATIO 
Not I, my lord, by heaven. 
 
HORATIO 
Not I, my lord, by heaven. 
 
 
POLONIUS  Well be with you, gentlemen. 
 
POLONIUS  Well be with you, gentlemen. 
POLONIUS  Well be with you, gentlemen. 
 
HAMLE 
POLONIUS  Well be with you, gentlemen. 
 
HAMLE 
POLONIUS  Upon my honor-- 
 
HAM 
POLONIUS  Upon my honor-- 
 
HAM 
MARCELLUS 
How is 't, my noble lord? 
  
MARCELLUS 
How is 't, my noble lord? 
  
MARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, my lord! 
 
HAMLET   
MARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, my lord! 
 
HAMLET   
HAMLET  Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird,  
HAMLET  Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird,  
HAMLET  Then came each actor on his ass. 
 
POLONIU 
HAMLET  Then came each actor on his ass. 
 
POLONIU 
HAMLET  O, wonderful! 
 
HORATIO 
G 
HAMLET  O, wonderful! 
 
HORATIO 
G 
POLONIUS  My lord, I have news to tell yo 
POLONIUS  My lord, I have news to tell yo 
HAMLET  My lord, I have news to te 
HAMLET  My lord, I have news to te 
HAMLET  Buzz, buzz. 
 
POLONIUS  Upon my hono 
HAMLET  Buzz, buzz. 
 
POLONIUS  Upon my hono 
HORATIO  What news, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  O 
HORATIO  What news, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  O 
POLONIUS  The actors are come hither, my lord.  
POLONIUS  The actors are come hither, my lord.  
HAMLET  Whose was it? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  A 
HAMLET  Whose was it? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  A 
[Enter Ghost.] 
 
But soft,  
[Enter Ghost.] 
 
But soft,  
GRAVEDIGGER  A whoreson m 
GRAVEDIGGER  A whoreson m 
HAMLET  
HAMLET  
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, here in Denmark. I hav 
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, here in Denmark. I hav 
GRAV 
GRAV 
HAMLET  Why he more th 
HAMLET  Why he more th 
HAMLET  To what base u 
HAMLET  To what base u 
HORATIO  E'en so, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  To  
HORATIO  E'en so, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  To  
HORATIO 
A mote it is to trouble th 
HORATIO 
A mote it is to trouble th 
HORATIO  'Twere to consider too curious 
HORATIO  'Twere to consider too curious 
HAMLET  No, faith, not a jot; but to fo 
HAMLET  No, faith, not a jot; but to fo 
HAMLET  And smelt so? Pah!	[He puts th 
HAMLET  And smelt so? Pah!	[He puts th 
GRAVEDIGGER  E'en that. 
  
GRAVEDIGGER  E'en that. 
  
HAMLET, [taking the skul 
HAMLET, [taking the skul 
HORAT 
HORAT 
HAMLET  Dost thou think Alexander looke 
HAMLET  Dost thou think Alexander looke 
GRAVEDIGGER  Cannot you tell that? Ever 
GRAVEDIGGER  Cannot you tell that? Ever 
CORNELIUS/VOLTEMAND  
CORNELIUS/VOLTEMAND  
KING  'Tis Hamlet's character. "Naked"--  
KING  'Tis Hamlet's character. "Naked"--  
LAERTES  Know you the han 
LAERTES  Know you the han 
MARCELLUS 
Shall I 
MARCELLUS 
Shall I 
HAML 
HAML 
KING  If it b 
KING  If it b 
HAMLET  Ay, marry, 
HAMLET  Ay, marry, 
HAMLET  How came he ma 
HAMLET  How came he ma 
HAMLET  How "strangely"? 
 
GR 
HAMLET  How "strangely"? 
 
GR 
GRAVEDIGGER  'Twill not be seen  
GRAVEDIGGER  'Twill not be seen  
KING  
KING  
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, because he was mad. 
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, because he was mad. 
KING  From Hamlet? Who brought th 
KING  From Hamlet? Who brought th 
[Ente 
[Ente 
HORATIO  That can I. 
At least the whispe 
HORATIO  That can I. 
At least the whispe 
HAMLET  Up from my 
HAMLET  Up from my 
HORAT 
HORAT 
HAMLET  Hear  
HAMLET  Hear  
KING 
I pray thee, good Horatio, w 
KING 
I pray thee, good Horatio, w 
Scene 
Scene 
 
HAMLET 
So m 
 
HAMLET 
So m 
MARCELLUS 
Good now, sit down,  
MARCELLUS 
Good now, sit down,  
HORATIO 
So Guildenstern and Rosencra 
HORATIO 
So Guildenstern and Rosencra 
HORATIO  How was this sealed? 
  
HORATIO  How was this sealed? 
  
HORAT 
HORAT 
HORATIO  I beseech you. 
 
HAMLET 
Being 
HORATIO  I beseech you. 
 
HAMLET 
Being 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HORATIO  Ay, good my lord. 
 
HAM 
HORATIO  Ay, good my lord. 
 
HAM 
DOCTO 
DOCTO 
LAERTES 
Must th 
LAERTES 
Must th 
LAERTES  Lay her i' th' earth, 
A 
LAERTES  Lay her i' th' earth, 
A 
LAERT 
LAERT 
But soft, but soft awhile! Here com 
But soft, but soft awhile! Here com 
HAMLET  That is 
HAMLET  That is 
LAERTES  What ceremony else 
LAERTES  What ceremony else 
BARNARDO 
I think it be no 
BARNARDO 
I think it be no 
QUEEN  O my son, what the 
QUEEN  O my son, what the 
QUEE 
QUEE 
HAMLET 
I loved Ophelia. Forty thous 
HAMLET 
I loved Ophelia. Forty thous 
KING  O, he is mad, Laertes! 
 
QUEEN  For lov 
KING  O, he is mad, Laertes! 
 
QUEEN  For lov 
HORATIO  Good my lord, be quiet. 
[Haml 
HORATIO  Good my lord, be quiet. 
[Haml 
LAERTES, [coming out of the grave] 
The  
LAERTES, [coming out of the grave] 
The  
HAMLET, [advancing] 
What is he whose  
HAMLET, [advancing] 
What is he whose  
HAMLET  Thou pray'st not well.	[They  
HAMLET  Thou pray'st not well.	[They  
ALL  Gentlemen! 
 
HORATIO  Good my l 
ALL  Gentlemen! 
 
HORATIO  Good my l 
KING  Pluck them asunder. 
 
QUEEN  Hamlet 
KING  Pluck them asunder. 
 
QUEEN  Hamlet 
QUEEN  Hamlet! Hamlet! 
 
ALL  Gentlemen!  
QUEEN  Hamlet! Hamlet! 
 
ALL  Gentlemen!  
HAMLET  How a 
HAMLET  How a 
GRAVEDIGGER  What, art a h 
GRAVEDIGGER  What, art a h 
GRAV 
GRAV 
MARCELLUS 
Let's do 't, I pray, and 
MARCELLUS 
Let's do 't, I pray, and 
OTHER  "Who builds s 
OTHER  "Who builds s 
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.  
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.  
GRAVEDIGGER  I like thy wit well, in good faith. 
GRAVEDIGGER  I like thy wit well, in good faith. 
OTHER  Go to! 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  What is he that buil 
OTHER  Go to! 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  What is he that buil 
OTHER  The gallows-maker; for that frame ou 
OTHER  The gallows-maker; for that frame ou 
GRA 
GRA 
BARNARDO  
BARNARDO  
GRAVE 
GRAVE 
OTHER 
OTHER 
HAMLET  I think it be thine indeed, fo 
HAMLET  I think it be thine indeed, fo 
GRAVE 
GRAVE 
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, marry, is 't--crown 
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, marry, is 't--crown 
GRAVEDIGGER  Give me leave. Here lie 
GRAVEDIGGER  Give me leave. Here lie 
Scene 2 
======= 
[Flourish. Enter C 
Scene 2 
======= 
[Flourish. Enter C 
OTHER  But is this law? 
OTHER  But is this law? 
HAMLET  That skull had a  
HAMLET  That skull had a  
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
MARCELLUS 
It faded on the crowing of th 
MARCELLUS 
It faded on the crowing of th 
GRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	But age with  
GRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	But age with  
HAMLET  There's another. Why may not 
HAMLET  There's another. Why may not 
HORATIO  Not a jot more, my lord. 
 
HAML 
HORATIO  Not a jot more, my lord. 
 
HAML 
GRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	A pickax and a  
GRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	A pickax and a  
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HORATIO  Ay, my lord.  
HORATIO  Ay, my lord.  
OTHER  Mass, I cannot te 
OTHER  Mass, I cannot te 
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.] 
  
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.] 
  
OTHER  Marry, now I can tell. 
 
GRAVEDIGGE 
OTHER  Marry, now I can tell. 
 
GRAVEDIGGE 
GRAVEDIGGER  To 't. 
 
OTHER  Mass, I 
GRAVEDIGGER  To 't. 
 
OTHER  Mass, I 
HORATIO 
So have I heard and do in part be 
HORATIO 
So have I heard and do in part be 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  Cudgel thy brains no mo 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  Cudgel thy brains no mo 
HORATIO 
And then it started like a guil 
HORATIO 
And then it started like a guil 
HAMLET  'Tis e'en so. The hand of little empl 
HAMLET  'Tis e'en so. The hand of little empl 
HAMLET  They are sheep and calves whi 
HAMLET  They are sheep and calves whi 
GRAVEDIGGER  Cudgel thy brains no 
GRAVEDIGGER  Cudgel thy brains no 
HORATIO  Custom hath made it in him a prop 
HORATIO  Custom hath made it in him a prop 
HAMLET  Has this fellow no feeling of his bu 
HAMLET  Has this fellow no feeling of his bu 
LAERTES  What out of this, my lord? 
 
KING  
LAERTES  What out of this, my lord? 
 
KING  
KING 
Laertes, was your father dear to 
KING 
Laertes, was your father dear to 
KING  The very same. 
 
LAERTES 
I know him wel 
KING  The very same. 
 
LAERTES 
I know him wel 
KI 
KI 
LAERTES 
I know him well. He is the br 
LAERTES 
I know him well. He is the br 
LAERTES  I will do 't, 
And for tha 
LAERTES  I will do 't, 
And for tha 
HORATIO  'Tis here. 
[Ghost exits.] 
 
MARC 
HORATIO  'Tis here. 
[Ghost exits.] 
 
MARC 
KING 
No place indeed should murder sanct 
KING 
No place indeed should murder sanct 
LAERTES  Why ask you this? 
 
KING 
Not t 
LAERTES  Why ask you this? 
 
KING 
Not t 
LAERTES  To cut his throat i' th' church 
LAERTES  To cut his throat i' th' church 
KING 
Not that I think you did not love your  
KING 
Not that I think you did not love your  
GRAVEDIGGER  For none, neith 
GRAVEDIGGER  For none, neith 
LAERTES  My lord, I will be ruled, 
The  
LAERTES  My lord, I will be ruled, 
The  
KING  It falls right. 
You have been talk 
KING  It falls right. 
You have been talk 
GRAVEDIGGER  One that was a woman,  
GRAVEDIGGER  One that was a woman,  
KING 
To thine own peace. If he be 
KING 
To thine own peace. If he be 
HORATIO  Do, if it will not stand.  
HORATIO  Do, if it will not stand.  
LAERTES  What part is that, my lord? 
 
KIN 
LAERTES  What part is that, my lord? 
 
KIN 
KING  A Norman. 
 
LAERTES 
Upon my life 
KING  A Norman. 
 
LAERTES 
Upon my life 
LAERTES 
Upon my life, Lamord. 
 
KING   
LAERTES 
Upon my life, Lamord. 
 
KING   
LAERTES  A Norman was 't? 
 
KING  A No 
LAERTES  A Norman was 't? 
 
KING  A No 
HAMLET  Who is to be buried in 't? 
 
 
HAMLET  Who is to be buried in 't? 
 
 
BARNARDO  'Tis here. 
 
HORATIO  'Tis  
BARNARDO  'Tis here. 
 
HORATIO  'Tis  
KING 
A very ribbon in the cap of youth-- 
Y 
KING 
A very ribbon in the cap of youth-- 
Y 
 
GRA 
 
GRA 
ACT 5 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter  
ACT 5 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter  
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone. 
We do it wrong, being 
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone. 
We do it wrong, being 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Gravedigger 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Gravedigger 
GRAVEDIGGER  'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twil 
GRAVEDIGGER  'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twil 
KING 
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother 
KING 
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother 
 
KING 
Though yet of Hamlet our dear broth 
 
KING 
Though yet of Hamlet our dear broth 
GRAVEDIGGER  How can that 
GRAVEDIGGER  How can that 
OTHER  I tell thee she 
OTHER  I tell thee she 
LAERTES  Drowne 
LAERTES  Drowne 
QUEEN 
One woe doth tread upon another's 
QUEEN 
One woe doth tread upon another's 
KING  Let's further think of this, 
KING  Let's further think of this, 
 
QUEEN 
One woe doth tread upon a 
 
QUEEN 
One woe doth tread upon a 
KING   
KING   
GRAVEDIGGER  For no man, sir. 
 
HAMLET  Wh 
GRAVEDIGGER  For no man, sir. 
 
HAMLET  Wh 
 
ACT 5 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Ente 
 
ACT 5 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Ente 
QUEEN 
There is a willow grows askant the bro 
QUEEN 
There is a willow grows askant the bro 
LAE 
LAE 
LAERTES 
Too much of water hast th 
LAERTES 
Too much of water hast th 
QUEEN  Drowned, drowned. 
 
LAERTES 
Too much o 
QUEEN  Drowned, drowned. 
 
LAERTES 
Too much o 
HORATIO 
In what particular thought t 
HORATIO 
In what particular thought t 
KING 
Give them the foils, young Osric. 
KING 
Give them the foils, young Osric. 
FORTINBRAS 
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud  
FORTINBRAS 
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud  
FRANCISCO 
Barnardo hath my place. Give you g 
FRANCISCO 
Barnardo hath my place. Give you g 
HAMLET  Very well, my lord. 
Your Grace h 
HAMLET  Very well, my lord. 
Your Grace h 
LAERTES  You mock me, sir. 
 
HAMLET  No, by 
LAERTES  You mock me, sir. 
 
HAMLET  No, by 
HORATIO  Not from his 
mouth, 
Had it  
HORATIO  Not from his 
mouth, 
Had it  
HAMLET  No, by this hand. 
 
KING 
Give th 
HAMLET  No, by this hand. 
 
KING 
Give th 
MARCELLUS  Holla, Barnardo. 
 
BARNARDO  
MARCELLUS  Holla, Barnardo. 
 
BARNARDO  
AMBASSADOR  The sight is dismal, 
And our affair 
AMBASSADOR  The sight is dismal, 
And our affair 
FORTINBRAS  Where is this sight? 
 
 
FORTINBRAS  Where is this sight? 
 
 
 
FORTINBRAS  Where is this sight? 
 
HORAT 
 
FORTINBRAS  Where is this sight? 
 
HORAT 
HORATIO 
Now cracks a noble heart. G 
HORATIO 
Now cracks a noble heart. G 
[Enter Fortinbras with the English Ambassador 
[Enter Fortinbras with the English Ambassador 
MARCELLUS 
O farewell, honest soldier. Who hat 
MARCELLUS 
O farewell, honest soldier. Who hat 
Characters in the Play 
========= 
Characters in the Play 
========= 
KING 
I do not fear it; I have seen you  
KING 
I do not fear it; I have seen you  
HORATIO  What is it you would see? 
If a 
HORATIO  What is it you would see? 
If a 
LAERTES 
This is too heavy. Let me see a 
LAERTES 
This is too heavy. Let me see a 
HAMLET 
This likes me well. These foils 
HAMLET 
This likes me well. These foils 
FORTINBRAS  Let us haste to hear it 
A 
FORTINBRAS  Let us haste to hear it 
A 
[A table prepared. Enter Trumpets, Drums 
[A table prepared. Enter Trumpets, Drums 
BARNA 
BARNA 
 
KING 
Come, Hamlet, come and take th 
 
KING 
Come, Hamlet, come and take th 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HAMLET  Not a whit. We defy augury. There i 
HAMLET  Not a whit. We defy augury. There i 
HORAT 
HORAT 
KING 
Come, Hamlet, come and take  
KING 
Come, Hamlet, come and take  
LAERTES  Come, one for 
LAERTES  Come, one for 
BARNARDO  Say, what, is Horatio  
BARNARDO  Say, what, is Horatio  
HAMLET 
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in m 
HAMLET 
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in m 
HORATIO 
What, has this thing app 
HORATIO 
What, has this thing app 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HORATIO 
Of that I shall have also caus 
HORATIO 
Of that I shall have also caus 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
OSRIC  Nothing neither way. 
 
LAERTES   
OSRIC  Nothing neither way. 
 
LAERTES   
LAERT 
LAERT 
 
BARNARDO  Who's there? 
 
FR 
 
BARNARDO  Who's there? 
 
FR 
LAERTES  Have at you now! 
[Laertes 
LAERTES  Have at you now! 
[Laertes 
KING  Part them. They are incensed. 
 
HA 
KING  Part them. They are incensed. 
 
HA 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Barnardo and  
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Barnardo and  
 
ACT 1  
 
ACT 1  
ACT 1 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
ACT 1 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
HAMLET 
Come, for the third, Laertes. You  
HAMLET 
Come, for the third, Laertes. You  
QUEEN  Come, let me wipe thy face. 
 
L 
QUEEN  Come, let me wipe thy face. 
 
L 
BARNARDO  He. 
 
FRANCISCO 
You come mos 
BARNARDO  He. 
 
FRANCISCO 
You come mos 
FRANCISCO 
You come most carefully upon  
FRANCISCO 
You come most carefully upon  
FRANC 
FRANC 
LAERTES, [aside] 
And yet it is almost ag 
LAERTES, [aside] 
And yet it is almost ag 
FRANCISCO 
Nay, answe 
FRANCISCO 
Nay, answe 
KING   
KING   
BARNARDO  Long live the King! 
 
FRANCISC 
BARNARDO  Long live the King! 
 
FRANCISC 
LAERTES  He is justly served. 
It is  
LAERTES  He is justly served. 
It is  
HAMLET 
Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, dam 
HAMLET 
Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, dam 
KING  
KING  
HAMLET 
Heaven make thee free of it. I fol 
HAMLET 
Heaven make thee free of it. I fol 
OSRIC  
OSRIC  
HORATIO  Never believe it. 
I am more an ant 
HORATIO  Never believe it. 
I am more an ant 
[Enter Osric.] 
 
 
OSRIC 
Young Fortinbras,  
[Enter Osric.] 
 
 
OSRIC 
Young Fortinbras,  
HAMLET  As thou 'rt a man, 
Give me the cup. Let g 
HAMLET  As thou 'rt a man, 
Give me the cup. Let g 
OSRIC  How is 't, Laertes? 
 
LAERTES 
Why  
OSRIC  How is 't, Laertes? 
 
LAERTES 
Why  
LAERTES 
Why as a woodcock to mine own  
LAERTES 
Why as a woodcock to mine own  
HORAT 
HORAT 
OSRIC  Look to the Queen there, ho! 
  
OSRIC  Look to the Queen there, ho! 
  
LAERTES 
It is here, 
LAERTES 
It is here, 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
How does the Queen? 
 
KING  She s 
HAMLET 
How does the Queen? 
 
KING  She s 
KING  
KING  
HORATIO  You will lose, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  I do 
HORATIO  You will lose, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  I do 
HAMLET  The concernancy, sir? Why do w 
HAMLET  The concernancy, sir? Why do w 
BARNAR 
BARNAR 
OSRIC  Sir? 
 
HORATIO  Is 't not possibl 
OSRIC  Sir? 
 
HORATIO  Is 't not possibl 
OSRIC  Nay, good my lord, for my ease, in 
OSRIC  Nay, good my lord, for my ease, in 
BARNARDO 
How now, Horatio, you tremble and  
BARNARDO 
How now, Horatio, you tremble and  
OSRIC  Your Lordship speaks most infallibl 
OSRIC  Your Lordship speaks most infallibl 
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone and will not answ 
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone and will not answ 
HAMLET  Sir, his definement suffers no p 
HAMLET  Sir, his definement suffers no p 
HORATIO  Is 't not possible to understand i 
HORATIO  Is 't not possible to understand i 
HAMLET  I would you did, sir. Yet, i 
HAMLET  I would you did, sir. Yet, i 
OSRIC  You are not ignorant of what exc 
OSRIC  You are not ignorant of what exc 
HAMLET  I dare not confess that, lest  
HAMLET  I dare not confess that, lest  
HORATIO 
What art thou that usurp' 
HORATIO 
What art thou that usurp' 
OSRIC  I know you are not ignorant--  
OSRIC  I know you are not ignorant--  
MARCELLUS 
It is offended. 
 
BARNARDO  See, 
MARCELLUS 
It is offended. 
 
BARNARDO  See, 
HAMLET, [to Osric]  What imports the nomina 
HAMLET, [to Osric]  What imports the nomina 
HAMLET  Of him, sir. 
 
OSRIC  I kn 
HAMLET  Of him, sir. 
 
OSRIC  I kn 
OSRIC  Of Laertes? 
 
HORATIO  His purs 
OSRIC  Of Laertes? 
 
HORATIO  His purs 
HORATIO  His purse is empty already;  
HORATIO  His purse is empty already;  
HAMLET  I beseech you, remember. [He motions to 
HAMLET  I beseech you, remember. [He motions to 
 
OSRIC  Your Lordship is right welc 
 
OSRIC  Your Lordship is right welc 
OSRIC  Your Lordship is right welcome back t 
OSRIC  Your Lordship is right welcome back t 
HORATIO, [aside to Hamlet]  No, my good 
HORATIO, [aside to Hamlet]  No, my good 
[Enter Osric, a courtier.] 
  
[Enter Osric, a courtier.] 
  
HORATIO 
I 
HORATIO 
I 
HORAT 
HORAT 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
MARCELLUS 
Thus twice before, and jum 
MARCELLUS 
Thus twice before, and jum 
OSRI 
OSRI 
OSRIC  It is indifferent cold, my lord 
OSRIC  It is indifferent cold, my lord 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
HORATIO  As thou art to thyself 
HORATIO  As thou art to thyself 
OSRIC  I thank your  
OSRIC  I thank your  
HAMLET  I will receive it, sir, wi 
HAMLET  I will receive it, sir, wi 
BARNARDO  Last night of al 
BARNARDO  Last night of al 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
HAMLET  Yours. [Osric exits.] He does well to comme 
HAMLET  Yours. [Osric exits.] He does well to comme 
[Enter Ghost.] 
 
 
MARCELLUS 
Peace, b 
[Enter Ghost.] 
 
 
MARCELLUS 
Peace, b 
HAMLET  Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If i 
HAMLET  Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If i 
OSRIC  I commend my duty to 
OSRIC  I commend my duty to 
HAML 
HAML 
LORD  The Queen desires you to use some gentl 
LORD  The Queen desires you to use some gentl 
HAMLET  In happy time. 
 
LORD  The Queen desir 
HAMLET  In happy time. 
 
LORD  The Queen desir 
FORTINBRAS  Let four captains 
Bear Hamlet li 
FORTINBRAS  Let four captains 
Bear Hamlet li 
HORATIO 
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear 
HORATIO 
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear 
HAMLET  She well instruc 
HAMLET  She well instruc 
HORATIO  Well, sit we  
HORATIO  Well, sit we  
BARNARDO  Sit down awhi 
BARNARDO  Sit down awhi 
HAMLET  I am constant to my purposes.  
HAMLET  I am constant to my purposes.  
LORD  The King and Queen and all are 
LORD  The King and Queen and all are 
HORATIO 
Most like. It harrows me with fear a 
HORATIO 
Most like. It harrows me with fear a 
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath wagered  
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath wagered  
BARNARDO 
Looks he not like the King? Mark  
BARNARDO 
Looks he not like the King? Mark  
HAMLET  What call you the "carriages"? 
 
HOR 
HAMLET  What call you the "carriages"? 
 
HOR 
HAMLET  That's two of his weapons. But 
HAMLET  That's two of his weapons. But 
OSRIC  I mean, sir, for his weapon. But  
OSRIC  I mean, sir, for his weapon. But  
MARCE 
MARCE 
OSRIC  Rapier and dagger. 
 
HAMLET 
OSRIC  Rapier and dagger. 
 
HAMLET 
HAMLET  What's his weapon? 
 
OSR 
HAMLET  What's his weapon? 
 
OSR 
BARNARDO 
It would be spoke to. 
 
MARCELLU 
BARNARDO 
It would be spoke to. 
 
MARCELLU 
HAMLET  How if I answer no? 
 
OSRIC  I mean, 
HAMLET  How if I answer no? 
 
OSRIC  I mean, 
BARNARDO 
In the same figure like the 
BARNARDO 
In the same figure like the 
 
MARCELLUS 
Peace, break thee off 
 
MARCELLUS 
Peace, break thee off 
OSRIC  I mean, my lord, the opposition of your p 
OSRIC  I mean, my lord, the opposition of your p 
MARCELLUS 
Peace, break thee off! Look w 
MARCELLUS 
Peace, break thee off! Look w 
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath laid, sir, that  
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath laid, sir, that  
MARCELLUS, [to Horatio] 
Thou art a sch 
MARCELLUS, [to Horatio] 
Thou art a sch 
HAMLET  The phrase would be more germa 
HAMLET  The phrase would be more germa 
HORATIO  I knew you must be edified by th 
HORATIO  I knew you must be edified by th======= 
[Enter Ghost and Hamle======= 
[Enter Ghost and Hamle 
OSRIC  The carriages, sir, are the hangers 
OSRIC  The carriages, sir, are the hangers======= 
[Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcell======= 
[Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcell 
LAERTES 
A touch, a touch. I do confe 
LAERTES 
A touch, a touch. I do confe 
BARNARDO  Have yo 
BARNARDO  Have yo 
KING 
Our so 
KING 
Our so 
OSRIC  A hit, a very palpable h 
OSRIC  A hit, a very palpable h 
LAER 
LAER 
FRANCISCO  Not a mouse stirring. 
 
BAR 
FRANCISCO  Not a mouse stirring. 
 
BAR 
BARNARDO  Well, good night. 
If you do mee 
BARNARDO  Well, good night. 
If you do mee 
KING 
Stay, give me drink.--Hamlet, this pear 
KING 
Stay, give me drink.--Hamlet, this pear 
LAE 
LAE 
HORATIO  Friends to this ground. 
 
HORATIO  Friends to this ground. 
 
LAERTES  Come, my lord.	[They play.] 
 
LAERTES  Come, my lord.	[They play.] 
 
FRANCISCO 
I think I hear them.--Stand ho! Who is 
FRANCISCO 
I think I hear them.--Stand ho! Who is 
HAMLET  One. 
 
LAERTES  No. 
 
HAMLET  Jud 
HAMLET  One. 
 
LAERTES  No. 
 
HAMLET  Jud 
FRANCISCO  Give you good night. 
 
MA 
FRANCISCO  Give you good night. 
 
MA 
OSRIC  Ay, my good lord. 
[Prepare to pl 
OSRIC  Ay, my good lord. 
[Prepare to pl 
HAMLET  Come on, sir. 
 
LAERTES  Come, my l 
HAMLET  Come on, sir. 
 
LAERTES  Come, my l 
KING 
Set me the stoups of wine upo 
KING 
Set me the stoups of wine upo 
MARCELLUS  And liegemen to the Dane.  
MARCELLUS  And liegemen to the Dane.  
HAMLET  Good madam. 
 
KING  Gertrude,  
HAMLET  Good madam. 
 
KING  Gertrude,  
KING  Gertrude, do not drink. 
 
QUEEN 
I wil 
KING  Gertrude, do not drink. 
 
QUEEN 
I wil 
 
FRANCISCO 
I think I hear them.--St 
 
FRANCISCO 
I think I hear them.--St===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Gravedigge===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Gravedigge======= 
[Enter Hamlet and three of ======= 
[Enter Hamlet and three of ======= 
[Flourish. Enter Claudius, King of De======= 
[Flourish. Enter Claudius, King of DeACT 5 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter GravedACT 5 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter GravedAnd I, of ladiesAnd I, of ladiesAnd theAnd theAffront Ophelia. 
Her father and Affront Ophelia. 
Her father and And to the manner born, it is a cusAnd to the manner born, it is a cus 
KING, [asid 
KING, [asidA man that Fortune's buffets and rewards 
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards 
And, after, we will both our judgmentsAnd, after, we will both our judgments 
BARNARDO 
'Tis now s 
BARNARDO 
'Tis now sAnd I'll be placed, so plAnd I'll be placed, so plAnd, bAnd, b 
QUEEN 
I will, my lord; I pray you pard 
QUEEN 
I will, my lord; I pray you pard[A flou[A flouAnd crook the prAnd crook the prAnd enterprises of great pitch and moAnd enterprises of great pitch and moAnd gather by him, as he is behaved,And gather by him, as he is behaved,And drive his purpose into these delightAnd drive his purpose into these delightAnd for my soul, what can it do tAnd for my soul, what can it do tAnd lose the name of action.--Soft you nAnd lose the name of action.--Soft you nAnd forAnd forAnd makes us rather bear those ills we have 
ThAnd makes us rather bear those ills we have 
ThAnd thus the native hue of resolution And thus the native hue of resolution As e'er my conversation coped withal. 
 As e'er my conversation coped withal. 
 And there assume some other horrible formAnd there assume some other horrible formAnd hath given countenance to his speech, my lAnd hath given countenance to his speech, my lAnd he beseeched me to entreat your MajAnd he beseeched me to entreat your MajAnd with them words of so sweet breath cAnd with them words of so sweet breath cAnd hears it roar beneath. 
 
HAMLET And hears it roar beneath. 
 
HAMLET Angels and ministers of grace, defendAngels and ministers of grace, defendAs infinite as man may undAs infinite as man may undAnd myAnd myAnd 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft. And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft. As I do tAs I do tAs Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note, 
For I mAs Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note, 
For I mAs in their birth (wherein tAs in their birth (wherein tAs madeAs madeAs one in suffering all thaAs one in suffering all thaAnd pious action we do suAnd pious action we do su 
 
OPHELIA 
Where is the beauteous Maje 
 
OPHELIA 
Where is the beauteous Maje 
HAMLET 
I shall in all my best obe 
HAMLET 
I shall in all my best obe 
QUEEN 
Let not thy mother lose her pra 
QUEEN 
Let not thy mother lose her pra 
OPHELIA 
Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denm 
OPHELIA 
Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denm 
QUEEN  How now, Ophelia? 
 
OPHELIA  
QUEEN  How now, Ophelia? 
 
OPHELIA  
[Enter Ophelia distrac 
[Enter Ophelia distrac 
GENTL 
GENTL 
GENTLEMAN 
She speaks much of her  
GENTLEMAN 
She speaks much of her  
HORATIO 
HORATIO 
KING 
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply. 
KING 
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply. 
[Ente 
[Ente 
 
QUEEN  Alas, look here, my lord. 
 
O 
 
QUEEN  Alas, look here, my lord. 
 
O 
KING 
H 
KING 
H 
OPHELIA  There's fennel for you, and colum 
OPHELIA  There's fennel for you, and colum 
OPHEL 
OPHEL 
QUEEN 
Alas, sweet l 
QUEEN 
Alas, sweet l 
QUEEN  Nay, but Ophelia-- 
 
OP 
QUEEN  Nay, but Ophelia-- 
 
OP 
OPHELIA [s 
OPHELIA [s 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
 
HAM 
 
HAM 
CAPTAIN  Against some p 
CAPTAIN  Against some p 
[Ent 
[Ent 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Fortinbras with h 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Fortinbras with h 
KING 
 
KING 
 
FOR 
FOR 
FORTIN 
FORTIN 
HAMLET  Who c 
HAMLET  Who c 
HAMLET 
O, that this too, t 
HAMLET 
O, that this too, t 
HAMLET 
I'll be with you straight. Go a 
HAMLET 
I'll be with you straight. Go a 
QUEEN  I will not sp 
QUEEN  I will not sp 
 
QUEEN  I will not spe 
 
QUEEN  I will not spe 
CAP 
CAP 
HAMLET 
Goes it against the main of Pol 
HAMLET 
Goes it against the main of Pol 
CAPTAIN  God be wi' y 
CAPTAIN  God be wi' y 
HAMLET 
Why, then, the Polack ne 
HAMLET 
Why, then, the Polack ne 
LAE 
LAE 
LAERTES 
I thank you. Keep the door. [Follo 
LAERTES 
I thank you. Keep the door. [Follo 
OPHELIA 
In 
OPHELIA 
In 
ALL  We will, we will. 
 
LAER 
ALL  We will, we will. 
 
LAER 
QUEEN  Calmly, good Laertes. 
 
LAERTES 
 
QUEEN  Calmly, good Laertes. 
 
LAERTES 
 
KING  Dead. 
 
QUEEN 
But not by him. 
 
KING  Dead. 
 
QUEEN 
But not by him. 
 
QUEEN 
But not by him. 
 
KING  Let him dema 
QUEEN 
But not by him. 
 
KING  Let him dema 
OPHELIA  Pray let's have no words of this, bu 
OPHELIA  Pray let's have no words of this, bu 
LAERTES 
That drop of blood that's ca 
LAERTES 
That drop of blood that's ca 
LAERTES  Where is my father? 
 
KING  D 
LAERTES  Where is my father? 
 
KING  D 
KING  What is the cause, Laertes, 
That thy reb 
KING  What is the cause, Laertes, 
That thy reb 
MESSENGER  Save yourself, my lord. 
The ocean 
MESSENGER  Save yourself, my lord. 
The ocean 
QUEEN  
QUEEN  
What is the matter? 
 
MESSENGER  Sav 
What is the matter? 
 
MESSENGER  Sav 
QUEEN  Alack, what noise is this? 
 
KI 
QUEEN  Alack, what noise is this? 
 
KI 
[Enter a Messenger.] 
 
What is the ma 
[Enter a Messenger.] 
 
What is the ma 
KING  Attend! 
Where is my Switze 
KING  Attend! 
Where is my Switze 
ALL  No, let's come in! 
 
LAERTES  I pray yo 
ALL  No, let's come in! 
 
LAERTES  I pray yo 
LAERTES  I pray you, give me leave. 
 
 
LAERTES  I pray you, give me leave. 
 
 
OPHELIA  I h 
OPHELIA  I h 
LAE 
LAE 
[Enter Laertes with others. 
] 
 
LAERTES 
[Enter Laertes with others. 
] 
 
LAERTES 
OPHELIA [sing 
OPHELIA [sing 
LAE 
LAE 
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven 
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven 
[Enter Ophelia.] 
 
O heat, dry up my bra 
[Enter Ophelia.] 
 
O heat, dry up my bra 
OPHE 
OPHE 
HAMLET 
Not so, my lord; I am too much in the  
HAMLET 
Not so, my lord; I am too much in the  
OPHELIA [sings] 
	   Larded all with 
OPHELIA [sings] 
	   Larded all with 
OPHELIA  You must sing 
OPHELIA  You must sing 
QUEEN 
Good Hamlet, c 
QUEEN 
Good Hamlet, c 
OPHELIA  Well, God dild you. They say the o 
OPHELIA  Well, God dild you. They say the o 
HAMLET 
"Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I k 
HAMLET 
"Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I k 
LAERTES  None but his enemies. 
 
KING  Will yo 
LAERTES  None but his enemies. 
 
KING  Will yo 
KING  Good Laertes, 
If you desire to know 
KING  Good Laertes, 
If you desire to know 
LAERTES 
How came he dead? I'll not be juggle 
LAERTES 
How came he dead? I'll not be juggle 
LAERTES  My will, not all the wo 
LAERTES  My will, not all the wo 
KING  Who shall stay you? 
 
LAERTES  My 
KING  Who shall stay you? 
 
LAERTES  My 
KING  Conceit upon her father. 
 
OPHELIA  
KING  Conceit upon her father. 
 
OPHELIA  
  [A noise within: 
  [A noise within: 
KING  Will you know them, then? 
 
LA 
KING  Will you know them, then? 
 
LA 
KIN 
KIN 
LAERTES 
To his good friends thus wide I' 
LAERTES 
To his good friends thus wide I' 
HAMLET 
My mother. Father and mother is man and wi 
HAMLET 
My mother. Father and mother is man and wi 
HAMLET  In my mind's eye, Horatio. 
 
HOR 
HAMLET  In my mind's eye, Horatio. 
 
HOR 
HAMLET  Safely stowed. 
 
GENTLEMEN,  
HAMLET  Safely stowed. 
 
GENTLEMEN,  
GENTLEMEN, [within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet! 
GENTLEMEN, [within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet! 
[Enter Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and 
[Enter Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and 
HAMLET  But soft, what noise? Who cal 
HAMLET  But soft, what noise? Who cal 
HORATIO 
Where, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  In my 
HORATIO 
Where, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  In my 
HORATIO 
I saw him once. He was a goodl 
HORATIO 
I saw him once. He was a goodl 
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 
 
 
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 
 
 
KING  O Gertrud 
KING  O Gertrud 
HORATIO 
My lord, I think I saw him  
HORATIO 
My lord, I think I saw him  
 
HAMLET  Safely stowed. 
 
GENTLEMEN, [with 
 
HAMLET  Safely stowed. 
 
GENTLEMEN, [with 
HAMLET 
He was a man. Take him for all in 
HAMLET 
He was a man. Take him for all in 
Friends both, go join you with so 
Friends both, go join you with so 
Scene 2 
======= 
 
Scene 2 
======= 
 
HAMLET  I am glad of it. A knavish speech 
HAMLET  I am glad of it. A knavish speech 
HORATIO 
My lord, I came to see your fathe 
HORATIO 
My lord, I came to see your fathe 
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you must t 
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you must t 
HORATIO 
Indeed, my lord, it foll 
HORATIO 
Indeed, my lord, it foll 
HAMLET  Ay, sir, that soaks up the  
HAMLET  Ay, sir, that soaks up the  
HAMLET 
I prithee, do not mock me, f 
HAMLET 
I prithee, do not mock me, f 
ROSENCRANTZ  I understand you not, 
ROSENCRANTZ  I understand you not, 
HAMLET 
Compounded it with dust, whe 
HAMLET 
Compounded it with dust, whe 
 
ROSENCRANTZ 
What have you done, my lord 
 
ROSENCRANTZ 
What have you done, my lord 
ROSENCRANTZ 
What have you done, my lor 
ROSENCRANTZ 
What have you done, my lor 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Tell us where 'tis, tha 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Tell us where 'tis, tha 
HAMLET  That I can keep your counsel an 
HAMLET  That I can keep your counsel an 
ROSENCRANTZ  Believe what? 
 
HAMLET  That  
ROSENCRANTZ  Believe what? 
 
HAMLET  That  
HAMLET  Do not believe it. 
 
ROSENCR 
HAMLET  Do not believe it. 
 
ROSENCR 
HAMLET 
Thrift, thrift, Horatio. The funeral 
HAMLET 
Thrift, thrift, Horatio. The funeral 
QUEEN 
To draw ap 
QUEEN 
To draw ap 
QUEEN  What shall I do? 
 
HAMLET 
Not  
QUEEN  What shall I do? 
 
HAMLET 
Not  
HAMLET 
O, throw away the worser part of it,  
HAMLET 
O, throw away the worser part of it,  
HAMLET 
Not this by no means that I bi 
HAMLET 
Not this by no means that I bi 
QUEEN  Alack, 
I had forgot! 'Tis 
QUEEN  Alack, 
I had forgot! 'Tis 
QUEEN 
Be thou assured, if words be mad 
QUEEN 
Be thou assured, if words be mad 
HAMLET 
I must to England, you know 
HAMLET 
I must to England, you know 
QUEEN 
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my  
QUEEN 
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my  
HAMLET  Nor did you nothing hear? 
 
QU 
HAMLET  Nor did you nothing hear? 
 
QU 
HAMLET  Do you see nothing there? 
HAMLET  Do you see nothing there? 
QUEEN 
Nothing at all; yet all that 
QUEEN 
Nothing at all; yet all that 
HAMLET  Ecstasy? 
My pulse as yours  
HAMLET  Ecstasy? 
My pulse as yours  
QUEEN 
This is the very coinage of your bra 
QUEEN 
This is the very coinage of your bra 
QUEEN  No, nothing but ourselves. 
 
HAMLET 
QUEEN  No, nothing but ourselves. 
 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
Why, look you there, look how it  
HAMLET 
Why, look you there, look how it  
HAMLET 
There's letters sealed; and my two sc 
HAMLET 
There's letters sealed; and my two sc 
KING  What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet 
KING  What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet 
QUEEN 
Bestow this place on us a litt 
QUEEN 
Bestow this place on us a litt 
HAMLET  The King my father? 
 
HORATIO 
Sea 
HAMLET  The King my father? 
 
HORATIO 
Sea 
KING 
KING 
QUEEN 
Mad as the sea and wind when both co 
QUEEN 
Mad as the sea and wind when both co 
HORATIO 
My lord, the King your father. 
 
HAMLET   
HORATIO 
My lord, the King your father. 
 
HAMLET   
HORATIO 
Two nights together had these  
HORATIO 
Two nights together had these  
 
ACT 4 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
 
 
ACT 4 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
 
ACT 4 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King 
ACT 4 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King 
HAMLET  For God's love, let me hear! 
 
HAMLET  For God's love, let me hear! 
 
HORATIO 
Season your admiratio 
HORATIO 
Season your admiratio 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King and Queen 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King and Queen 
 
KING 
There's matter in these sighs; these pr 
 
KING 
There's matter in these sighs; these pr 
KING 
There's matter in these sighs; t 
KING 
There's matter in these sighs; tAll saws of books, all forms, all pressuAll saws of books, all forms, all pressu 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Without, my lord; guarde 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Without, my lord; guarde 
KING  But where is he? 
 
ROSENCRANTZ 
W 
KING  But where is he? 
 
ROSENCRANTZ 
W 
ROSENCRANTZ  Ho! Bring 
ROSENCRANTZ  Ho! Bring 
KING 
Bring him before us. 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  
KING 
Bring him before us. 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  
HAMLET 
I am very glad to see you 
HAMLET 
I am very glad to see you 
HAMLET  Nothing but to show you how a king m 
HAMLET  Nothing but to show you how a king m 
[Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Barnardo.] 
[Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Barnardo.] 
 
HORATIO  
 
HORATIO  
ROSENCRANTZ 
Where the dead body is bes 
ROSENCRANTZ 
Where the dead body is bes 
HORATIO  Hail to your Lordship.  
HORATIO  Hail to your Lordship.  
HORATIO 
A tru 
HORATIO 
A tru 
HAMLET  Not where he eats, b 
HAMLET  Not where he eats, b 
HAMLET  A man may fish w 
HAMLET  A man may fish w 
[They enter with Haml 
[They enter with Haml 
 
KING  Now, Hamlet, where 
 
KING  Now, Hamlet, where 
KING  Now, Haml 
KING  Now, Haml 
How now, what hath befallen? 
  
How now, what hath befallen? 
  
KING  Ay, Hamlet. 
 
HAMLET  Good. 
 
KING  
KING  Ay, Hamlet. 
 
HAMLET  Good. 
 
KING  
GUILDEN 
GUILDEN 
KING 
Hamlet, this deed 
KING 
Hamlet, this deed 
ROSENCRANTZ  Take you me f 
ROSENCRANTZ  Take you me f 
HAMLET  The body is 
HAMLET  The body is 
HAMLE 
HAMLE 
HAMLET  Of nothing.  
HAMLET  Of nothing.  
 
KING 
I have sent to seek h 
 
KING 
I have sent to seek h 
KING  
KING  
HAMLET 
I would not hear 
HAMLET 
I would not hear 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter] 
 
L] 
 
L======= 
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio.] 
 
 
HAMLET======= 
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio.] 
 
 
HAMLETALLALLALL  No, let's come iALL  No, let's come i 
KING  What dost thou mean by this? 
 
HAM 
KING  What dost thou mean by this? 
 
HAMAbout About Adieu, adieu, adieu. Remember me.	[He exits.] 
Adieu, adieu, adieu. Remember me.	[He exits.] 
[A flourish for the Playe[A flourish for the PlayeAnd 'giAnd 'giA couch for luxury and damned incest. 
But, howsomA couch for luxury and damned incest. 
But, howsomAnd it must follAnd it must follAnd, like a neutral to his will and matteAnd, like a neutral to his will and matteAnd shall I couple hell? O fie! Hold, holAnd shall I couple hell? O fie! Hold, holAnd much offense, too. Touching this visionAnd much offense, too. Touching this visionAnd so, without more circumstance at all, 
I holAnd so, without more circumstance at all, 
I holAnd thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheAnd thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheAnd thus o'ersized with coagulate gore, 
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore, 
And thy commandAnd thy commandAnd youAnd youAnd you, my sinews, grow not instant old, 
But And you, my sinews, grow not instant old, 
But  
KING 
KING 
KING 
Now must your conscience my a 
KING 
Now must your conscience my a 
KING  O, for two sp 
KING  O, for two sp 
LAERTES  It well appears. But tell  
LAERTES  It well appears. But tell  
	His 
	His 
How now? What news? 
 
MESSENGER  Letters,  
How now? What news? 
 
MESSENGER  Letters,  
KING 
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,  
KING 
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,  
[Enter a Messenger with letters.] 
 
How n 
[Enter a Messenger with letters.] 
 
How n 
LAERTES 
And so have I a noble father los 
LAERTES 
And so have I a noble father los 
KING 
Break not your sleeps for that. You must 
KING 
Break not your sleeps for that. You must 
LAERTES  Do you see this, O God? 
 
KING  
LAERTES  Do you see this, O God? 
 
KING  
SAILOR  God bless you,  
SAILOR  God bless you,  
HORATIO  Let Him bless thee too. 
 
 
HORATIO  Let Him bless thee too. 
 
 
SAIL 
SAIL 
HORATIO [reads the letter]  Horatio, when  
HORATIO [reads the letter]  Horatio, when  
POLONIUS 
Hath, my lord, wrung from me  
POLONIUS 
Hath, my lord, wrung from me  
HORATIO  What are they t 
HORATIO  What are they t 
GENTLEMAN  Seafaring men, sir. T 
GENTLEMAN  Seafaring men, sir. T===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Ba===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter Ba 
KING 
KING 
LAERTES  Let 
LAERTES  Let======= 
[Enter Barnardo and Francisco, two======= 
[Enter Barnardo and Francisco, two======= 
[Enter Horatio, Queen, and a ======= 
[Enter Horatio, Queen, and a ======= 
[Enter King and Laertes.] 
 ======= 
[Enter King and Laertes.] 
 ALL  AALL  AACT 1 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter BaACT 1 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter BaALL  My loALL  My loA blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-- 
WhA blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-- 
Wh===== 
 
Scene 1 ===== 
 
Scene 1 ===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter K===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter K=================== 
[Enter King and Queen, with Rosen======= 
[Enter King and Queen, with Rosen======= 
[Enter Ki======= 
[Enter KiAdmit no messengers, recAdmit no messengers, recAll giAll giAnd I believe it is a fetch of wit. 
You, lAnd I believe it is a fetch of wit. 
You, lAccording to the phraseAccording to the phrase======= 
[Enter Laertes and Ophelia, hi======= 
[Enter Laertes and Ophelia, hi======= 
[Enter Q======= 
[Enter Q======= 
[Enter old Polonius with his man R======= 
[Enter old Polonius with his man RAbout, my brains!--Hum, I have heard About, my brains!--Hum, I have heard And a And a And, at our more considered time, we'll read, 
Answer, And, at our more considered time, we'll read, 
Answer, And all we mourn for. 
 
KING, [to Queen]  Do yoAnd all we mourn for. 
 
KING, [to Queen]  Do yoAnd canAnd canAll my smooth body. 
Thus was I, sleeping, by All my smooth body. 
Thus was I, sleeping, by And cuAnd cuAnd each particular hair to stand an end, 
LAnd each particular hair to stand an end, 
LAnd for the day confined to fast in fires 
Till theAnd for the day confined to fast in fires 
Till theAnd how, and who, what means, and where they 
keAnd how, and who, what means, and where they 
keAnd lay your hands again upon my sword. 
SAnd lay your hands again upon my sword. 
S===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter old Po===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter old Po====================== 
THE GHOST 
HAMLET,====================== 
THE GHOST 
HAMLET,ACT 2 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======ACT 2 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======ACT 4 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King aACT 4 
===== 
 
Scene 1 
======= 
[Enter King aA Captain in Fortinbras's army 
Ambassadors tA Captain in Fortinbras's army 
Ambassadors tALL  Treason, treason! 
 
KING 
O, yet defALL  Treason, treason! 
 
KING 
O, yet defALL  We do, my lord. 
 
HAMLET 
Armed, say you?ALL  We do, my lord. 
 
HAMLET 
Armed, say you?  A Lor  A LorA bloody deed--almost as bad, good mother, 
As kiA bloody deed--almost as bad, good mother, 
As kiA brokeA brokeAnd prey on garbage. 
But soft, methiAnd prey on garbage. 
But soft, methiAnd passion in the gods. 
 
POLONIUS  LooAnd passion in the gods. 
 
POLONIUS  LooAnd that in way of caution), I must tell you 
And that in way of caution), I must tell you 
Addicted so and so." AndAddicted so and so." And"And, "And, And fall a-cursing like a very drab, 
A stallAnd fall a-cursing like a very drab, 
A stall(As I perchance hereafter shall think me(As I perchance hereafter shall think meAs "Well, well, we know," or "We coAs "Well, well, we know," or "We coAs are companions noted and most known 
To youthAs are companions noted and most known 
To youthAnd therefore as a stranger give it welcome. 
ThereAnd therefore as a stranger give it welcome. 
ThereAs deep as to the lungs? Who does me this? 
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this? 
ALL  Our duty to your Honor. 
 
HAMLET 
ALL  Our duty to your Honor. 
 
HAMLET 
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peakA dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peakAffection, puh! You speak likAffection, puh! You speak likAnd I beseecAnd I beseecAnd sAnd sAnd cAnd cAnd endAnd endAnd, inAnd, inAnd what so poor a man as Hamlet is 
May doAnd what so poor a man as Hamlet is 
May doA serpenA serpenAs meditation or the thoughts of love, 
May swAs meditation or the thoughts of love, 
May swAs may dishonor him, take As may dishonor him, take As thus:As thus:A stallion! Fie upon 't! Foh! 
About, my braiA stallion! Fie upon 't! Foh! 
About, my braiAs the indifferent children of the eaAs the indifferent children of the eaAy, so, good-byeAy, so, good-byeBefore you visit him, to make inquiBefore you visit him, to make inquiAy, thatAy, thatBut I am pigeon-livered and lack gall 
To make oBut I am pigeon-livered and lack gall 
To make oBut if 't be he I mean, he's very wild, 
AddBut if 't be he I mean, he's very wild, 
AddBut if the gods themselves did see her then But if the gods themselves did see her then But lBut lBut in a fiction, in a dream of passion, 
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion, 
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slipBut, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slipAnd here give up ourselves in the full bent 
TAnd here give up ourselves in the full bent 
TAnd he, repelled (a short tale to make), 
FAnd he, repelled (a short tale to make), 
FAnd his commission to employ those soldiers, 
So leAnd his commission to employ those soldiers, 
So leAnd leads the will to desperate undertakingAnd leads the will to desperate undertakingAnd in the porches of my ears did pour 
The lepAnd in the porches of my ears did pour 
The lepAnd sith so neighbored to his youAnd sith so neighbored to his youAnd meanAnd meanAnd tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,And thus do we of wisdom and of reach, And thus do we of wisdom and of reach, And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:And to the last bended their light on me. 
 
PAnd to the last bended their light on me. 
 
PAnd never did the Cyclops' hammers fallAnd never did the Cyclops' hammers fallAnd thrice his head thus waving up and down,And thrice his head thus waving up and down,And pity 'tis 'tis true--a foolish figAnd pity 'tis 'tis true--a foolish figAnd with a look so piAnd with a look so piAnd, with his head over his sAnd, with his head over his sAnswer, and think upon this business. 
MeantiAnswer, and think upon this business. 
MeantiAre joyfully returned. 
 
KING 
Thou stiAre joyfully returned. 
 
KING 
Thou stiA savageness in unreclaimed blood, 
Of geneA savageness in unreclaimed blood, 
Of geneAs if heAs if heAs low as to the fiends! 
 
POLONIUS  This is As low as to the fiends! 
 
POLONIUS  This is As fits a king's remembrance. 
 
ROSENCAs fits a king's remembrance. 
 
ROSENCAs hush as death, anon the dreadAs hush as death, anon the dreadA silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, As it haAs it ha(As I perceived it, I must tell you that,(As I perceived it, I must tell you that,As it is common for the younger sort 
TAs it is common for the younger sort 
TAs of a man faithful and honorableAs of a man faithful and honorableAs they fell out byAs they fell out byAs it did seem to shatter allAs it did seem to shatter allAs 'twere a thing a little soiled i' thAs 'twere a thing a little soiled i' thAt "closes in the consequence"--ay, marryAt "closes in the consequence"--ay, marryAt least I am sure it may be so in DenAt least I am sure it may be so in DenAt such a time I'll loose my daughtAt such a time I'll loose my daughtAway, I do beseech you both, away. 
I'll boAway, I do beseech you both, away. 
I'll boAy, "fashion" you may call it. Go to, go to! 
 
OAy, "fashion" you may call it. Go to, go to! 
 
OAy, thou poor ghost, whiles memory holds a seatAy, thou poor ghost, whiles memory holds a seatBe allBe allBefore my daughter told me), what might yoBefore my daughter told me), what might yoBeing a thing immortal as itself? 
It wavesBeing a thing immortal as itself? 
It wavesAy, springes to catch woodcocks. I do kAy, springes to catch woodcocks. I do kBeing nature's livery or fortune's star, 
His vBeing nature's livery or fortune's star, 
His vBaked and impasted with the parching stBaked and impasted with the parching stBe ruled. You shall Be ruled. You shall Be thy intents wicked or charBe thy intents wicked or charBelieve so much in him that he is young, 
And with aBelieve so much in him that he is young, 
And with aBlack as his purpose, did the night resemble 
When Black as his purpose, did the night resemble 
When Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel, 
AndBreak all the spokes and fellies from her wheel, 
AndBoth to my God and to myBoth to my God and to myBrief leBrief leBut as we often see against some storm 
A sBut as we often see against some storm 
A sBut bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasBring with thee airs from heaven or blasBut farewell it, for I will use no art. 
Mad let uBut farewell it, for I will use no art. 
Mad let uBut,But,But let that go. 
 
QUEEN  More matter with lessBut let that go. 
 
QUEEN  More matter with lessBut mere implorators of unholy suits, 
BreBut mere implorators of unholy suits, 
BreBut, better looked into, he truly found But, better looked into, he truly found But do not go with it. 
 
HORATIO  No, by no mBut do not go with it. 
 
HORATIO  No, by no mBut he's an arrant knave. 
 
HORATIO 
There neeBut he's an arrant knave. 
 
HORATIO 
There neeBut from what cause he will by no meanBut from what cause he will by no mean	   But never doubt I love. 
O dear Ophe	   But never doubt I love. 
O dear OpheBut soft, methinks I scent the morniBut soft, methinks I scent the morniBut that the dread of something afBut that the dread of something afBut, if you hold it fit, after the play 
LetBut, if you hold it fit, after the play 
LetBut thisBut thisBut, to my mind,But, to my mind,But virtue, as it never will be moved, 
But virtue, as it never will be moved, 
But with much forcing oBut with much forcing oBut you'But you'But this eternal blazon must not be But this eternal blazon must not be By indirections find directBy indirections find directBut who, ah woe, had seen the mobledBut who, ah woe, had seen the mobledCapitol. Brutus killed mCapitol. Brutus killed mChristiaChristiaCome. 
[They exit.] 
 
ScenCome. 
[They exit.] 
 
ScenCome, go with meCome, go with meCome on, you hear this fellow in theCome on, you hear this fellow in theDoth reDoth reElsinore? 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lordElsinore? 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lordCould force his soul so to his own conceCould force his soul so to his own conceDevoutlDevoutlDo not, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, what Do not, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, what 	   Doubt that the sun doth move, 
	Doubt t	   Doubt that the sun doth move, 
	Doubt t	Doubt thou the stars are fire, 
	   Doubt 	Doubt thou the stars are fire, 
	   Doubt Did nothing. 
But as we often see againsDid nothing. 
But as we often see againsDo not believe his vows, for they are brokers, 
NDo not believe his vows, for they are brokers, 
NDo not itself unkennel in one speech,Do not itself unkennel in one speech,Doomed for a certain term to walk thDoomed for a certain term to walk thDoth all the noble substance of a doubt Doth all the noble substance of a doubt Do you bDo you bConsent to swear.Consent to swear.[Enter Ambassadors Voltemand and[Enter Ambassadors Voltemand and[Enter Ghost.] 
 
 
HOR[Enter Ghost.] 
 
 
HOREven with the very commEven with the very comm[Enter [Enter [Enter Polonius.] 
 
 
POLONIUS  Well be [Enter Polonius.] 
 
 
POLONIUS  Well be FIRST PLAYER 
But who, ah woe, had seen thFIRST PLAYER 
But who, ah woe, had seen thFIRST PLAYER  What speech, my good lord? 
 
FIRST PLAYER  What speech, my good lord? 
 
[Enter Ghost and Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAML[Enter Ghost and Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAML[Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.[Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.[Enter Hamlet reading on a book.] 
 
 [Enter Hamlet reading on a book.] 
 
 [Enter Horatio and Marcellus.] 
 
 
HORATIO [Enter Horatio and Marcellus.] 
 
 
HORATIO [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, R[Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, R[Enter Ophelia.] 
 
How now, Ophelia, [Enter Ophelia.] 
 
How now, Ophelia, [Enter Polonius.] 
 
 
POLONIUS 
Th' ambassa[Enter Polonius.] 
 
 
POLONIUS 
Th' ambassa[Enter Trumpets and Kettle Drums. Enter King[Enter Trumpets and Kettle Drums. Enter King[Enter a King and a Queen, very lovingly, t[Enter a King and a Queen, very lovingly, t[Enter Horatio.] 
 
 
HORATIO  Here, sweet l[Enter Horatio.] 
 
 
HORATIO  Here, sweet l[Enter Prologue.] 
 
 
HAMLET  We shall k[Enter Prologue.] 
 
 
HAMLET  We shall k[Enter o[Enter oFIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  VeryFIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Very[Enter Polonius, Guildenstern, an[Enter Polonius, Guildenstern, an[Enter the Players.] 
 
You are welco[Enter the Players.] 
 
You are welcoEven in their promise as it is a-making, 
YoEven in their promise as it is a-making, 
YoFIRST PLAYER  Anon he finds him 
StFIRST PLAYER  Anon he finds him 
StFIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  We'lFIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  We'lFIRST PLAYER 
Run barefoot up and down, threat'nFIRST PLAYER 
Run barefoot up and down, threat'nFarewelFarewelFarewell, Ophelia, and remember well 
WhFarewell, Ophelia, and remember well 
WhFarewell.	[Reynaldo exits.] 
 
[EnFarewell.	[Reynaldo exits.] 
 
[EnFell into a sadneFell into a sadne[Flourish. Enter King and Queen, [Flourish. Enter King and Queen, (For every man hath business and desire, 
Suc(For every man hath business and desire, 
SucFor Hecuba! 
What's Hecuba to him, or he to HecFor Hecuba! 
What's Hecuba to him, or he to HecFor in that sleep of death what dreams may come, For in that sleep of death what dreams may come, By heaven, it is as proper to our ageBy heaven, it is as proper to our ageA brother's murder. Pray can I not, 
ThoA brother's murder. Pray can I not, 
ThoAbsent thee from felicity awhile 
AnAbsent thee from felicity awhile 
AnA chalice for the nonce, whereon but sippingA chalice for the nonce, whereon but sippingA combination and a form indeed 
Where every god dA combination and a form indeed 
Where every god dA coA coActs little of his will.--Tell me, Laertes,Acts little of his will.--Tell me, Laertes,A douA douA face withoA face withoAfter tAfter tA littlA littlA kind of wick or snuff that will abate it, 
AndA kind of wick or snuff that will abate it, 
AndA fault against the dead, a fA fault against the dead, a fAgaiAgaiAh, mine own lord, what have I seen tonightAh, mine own lord, what have I seen tonight	   Alack and fie for shame, 
	Young men w	   Alack and fie for shame, 
	Young men wAlas, sweet lady, what imports this sonAlas, sweet lady, what imports this sonA little month, or ere those shoes were oldA little month, or ere those shoes were oldA heart unfortified, a mind impatient, A heart unfortified, a mind impatient, Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answAlas, how shall this bloody deed be answ[All but Hamlet and Horatio exit.] 
 
HAM[All but Hamlet and Horatio exit.] 
 
HAMA little more than kin and less than kind. 
 
KING 
A little more than kin and less than kind. 
 
KING 
[All but Hamlet exit.] 
My father's spiri[All but Hamlet exit.] 
My father's spiri[All but Hamlet exit.] 
'Tis now the [All but Hamlet exit.] 
'Tis now the [All but the King exit.] 
And England, if my lov[All but the King exit.] 
And England, if my lov[All but Hamlet exit.] 
How all occasions do in[All but Hamlet exit.] 
How all occasions do in	All flaxen was his poll. 
	   He is gone, he 	All flaxen was his poll. 
	   He is gone, he All from her father's death, and now bAll from her father's death, and now b	   All in the morning betime, 
	And I a m	   All in the morning betime, 
	And I a mAnd England, if my love thou hold'st atAnd England, if my love thou hold'st atAmong a mineral of metals base, 
Shows itselfAmong a mineral of metals base, 
Shows itself	And I a maid at your window, 
	   To	And I a maid at your window, 
	   ToAnd bAnd bAnd am most sensibly in grief for it, 
It sAnd am most sensibly in grief for it, 
It sAlmost to jelly with the act of fear, 
StAlmost to jelly with the act of fear, 
St[A march afar off and shot within.] 
What warl[A march afar off and shot within.] 
What warlAmbassadors to Denmark from England 
PAmbassadors to Denmark from England 
PAnd a man's life's no more than to saAnd a man's life's no more than to saA minist'ring angel shall my sister beA minist'ring angel shall my sister beAnd at the sound it shrunk in haste away And at the sound it shrunk in haste away And blow them at the moon. O,And blow them at the moon. O,And both neglect. What if this cAnd both neglect. What if this cAll may be well.	[He kneels.] 
 
[Enter HamleAll may be well.	[He kneels.] 
 
[Enter HamleAnd I am sick at heart. 
 
BARNARDO  Have And I am sick at heart. 
 
BARNARDO  Have And I the matter And I the matter And I with them the third nightAnd I with them the third nightAnd, as my love is sized, my fear is so: 
WAnd, as my love is sized, my fear is so: 
WAnd, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alAnd, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alAnd, as you saidAnd, as you saidAnd And An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope. 
EaAn anchor's cheer in prison be my scope. 
EaAnd bAnd bAnd do such bitter business as the day 
WoulAnd do such bitter business as the day 
WoulAnd convey is assistant, do not sleeAnd convey is assistant, do not sleeAnd do not spread the compost on the weedsAnd do not spread the compost on the weedsAnd he to England shall along with you. 
TAnd he to England shall along with you. 
TAnd hithertoAnd hithertoAnd how his audit stands who knows save heaAnd how his audit stands who knows save heaAnd keep you in the rear of And keep you in the rear of And, in the mornAnd, in the mornAnd, like a man to double businessAnd, like a man to double businessAnd makes as healthfulAnd makes as healthfulAnd never come miAnd never come miAnd now And now And reason panders will. 
 
QUEEN  O HamleAnd reason panders will. 
 
QUEEN  O HamleAnd recks not his own And recks not his own And And And live the purer with the other half! 
GoodAnd live the purer with the other half! 
GoodAnd so hAnd so hAnd thou shalt live in this fair world And thou shalt live in this fair world And who in want a hollow friend dAnd who in want a hollow friend dAnd women's fear and love hold quantityAnd women's fear and love hold quantityAnd you are stayed for. There, my blessingAnd you are stayed for. There, my blessingAnd so am I revenged. That would be sAnd so am I revenged. That would be sAre of a most select and generous chief Are of a most select and generous chief Armed, say you? 
 
ALL  Armed, my Armed, say you? 
 
ALL  Armed, my As hAs hAs kill a king? 
 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it wAs kill a king? 
 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it wAssume aAssume aAs watchman to my heart. But, good my broAs watchman to my heart. But, good my broAnd let me wring your heart; for so I shall 
IfAnd let me wring your heart; for so I shall 
IfBut But But woe is me! You are so sick of late, 
SoBut woe is me! You are so sick of late, 
SoCalls virtue hypoCalls virtue hypoBe soft as sinews of the newborn babe. 
All Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe. 
All But, orderly to end where I begun: 
Our wills anBut, orderly to end where I begun: 
Our wills anAnd, And, And that your Grace hath screened andAnd that your Grace hath screened andAnd they in France of the best rank and statioAnd they in France of the best rank and statioAnd And An eye like Mars' to thrAn eye like Mars' to thrAre mortised and adjoined, which, when it fallsAre mortised and adjoined, which, when it fallsA second tA second tAs I do live, my honored As I do live, my honored Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay. 
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay. 
As from tAs from t[Aside.] They fool me to the top of my ben[Aside.] They fool me to the top of my benAnd whatsomever else shall hap tonight,And whatsomever else shall hap tonight,A sable silvered. 
 
HAMLET  I will watch A sable silvered. 
 
HAMLET  I will watch A station like the herald Mercury 
New-A station like the herald Mercury 
New-Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alonAttends the boist'rous ruin. Never alonBlasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?At game, a-swearing, or about some act 
At game, a-swearing, or about some act 
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strifeBoth here and hence pursue me lasting strifeBut do not dull thy palm with entertainmeBut do not dull thy palm with entertainmeBARNARDO/MARCELLUS  Longer, longer. 
 
HORBARNARDO/MARCELLUS  Longer, longer. 
 
HORBe thou familiar, but by no means vulBe thou familiar, but by no means vulBow, stubborn knees, and heart with strings of Bow, stubborn knees, and heart with strings of But fall unshaken when they mellow be.But fall unshaken when they mellow be.But in our circumstance and course of thought 
But in our circumstance and course of thought 
AndAndBear 't that th' opposed may beware of thee.Bear 't that th' opposed may beware of thee.But is there no sequel at the heels of tBut is there no sequel at the heels of tBut mad in craft. 'Twere good you let hBut mad in craft. 'Twere good you let hBut not expressed iBut not expressed iBy their oppressed and fear-surprised eyes By their oppressed and fear-surprised eyes But what we do determine oft we break. 
PurBut what we do determine oft we break. 
PurCome, come, you answer with an idle tonCome, come, you answer with an idle tonCome, come, and sit you Come, come, and sit you Costly thy habit as thyCostly thy habit as thyCould you on this fair mountain leave to feedCould you on this fair mountain leave to feedDid the king sigh, but with a generalDid the king sigh, but with a generalDies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw 
What'Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw 
What'Directly seasons him his enemy. 
But, orderly tDirectly seasons him his enemy. 
But, orderly tDiscomfort you, myDiscomfort you, myEach opposite that blanks the fEach opposite that blanks the fA cutpurse of the empire and the rule,A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,And that shall lend a kind of easinAnd that shall lend a kind of easinAnd therefore must his choice be circAnd therefore must his choice be circAnd there I see such black and grained spots And there I see such black and grained spots And vanished from our sight. 
 
HAMLET  'Tis veAnd vanished from our sight. 
 
HAMLET  'Tis veAnd, when you are desirous to be blest, 
I'lAnd, when you are desirous to be blest, 
I'lAnd what's in prayer but this twofold force, 
To And what's in prayer but this twofold force, 
To And with th' incorporal air do hold disAnd with th' incorporal air do hold disAnd tell you what I know. 
 
KING  Thanks, deAnd tell you what I know. 
 
KING  Thanks, deAs he in his particular act and place 
MayAs he in his particular act and place 
MayA slave that is A slave that is A violet in the youth of primy naA violet in the youth of primy naBe wary,Be wary,But even then the morning cock crewBut even then the morning cock crewBut it reserved some quantity of choice 
To seBut it reserved some quantity of choice 
To seBut look, amazement on thy mother sits. 
OBut look, amazement on thy mother sits. 
OBehind the arras I'll convey myself 
ToBehind the arras I'll convey myself 
ToCan serve my turn? "Forgive me my foul murCan serve my turn? "Forgive me my foul mur[Claudius rises.] 
 
OPHELIA  The King ris[Claudius rises.] 
 
OPHELIA  The King ris[Enter Ghost.] 
 
Save me and hover o'er [Enter Ghost.] 
 
Save me and hover o'er Conceit in weakest bodies strongest worksConceit in weakest bodies strongest worksContagious blastments are most imminent.Contagious blastments are most imminent.ConfederConfederDid you not speak to it? 
 
HORATIO  My loDid you not speak to it? 
 
HORATIO  My loDo you not come your tardy son to chiDo you not come your tardy son to chi[Enter Polonius.] 
 
I stay too long. But h[Enter Polonius.] 
 
I stay too long. But hFor Hamlet, and the trifling of his favor, 
Hold it aFor Hamlet, and the trifling of his favor, 
Hold it a	For if the King like not	For if the King like notForth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep, 
And, as Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep, 
And, as Appears before them and with solemn march 
Goes slAppears before them and with solemn march 
Goes slCome, some music! 
 
[Enter Rosencrantz andCome, some music! 
 
[Enter Rosencrantz andBuys out the law. But 'tis not so abBuys out the law. But 'tis not so ab[Enter Q[Enter Q[Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET 
Now might I do [Enter Hamlet.] 
 
 
HAMLET 
Now might I do [Enter Rosencrantz and[Enter Rosencrantz and[Enter the Players with recorde[Enter the Players with recordeFaith, I must leave thee, love, aFaith, I must leave thee, love, aFixed on the summit of theFixed on the summit of the[Enter Laertes and Ophelia,[Enter Laertes and Ophelia,For he himself is subject to his birth. 
He may not, For he himself is subject to his birth. 
He may not, For, in the fatness of these pursy times, 
Virtue itsFor, in the fatness of these pursy times, 
Virtue itsFor loan oft loses both itselFor loan oft loses both itselForm of the thing (each word made trueForm of the thing (each word made trueFor nature, crescent, does not For nature, crescent, does not For out o' doors he went without their helps 
For out o' doors he went without their helps 
For the demand of our neglected tribuFor the demand of our neglected tribu	   A very very--pajock. 
 
HORATIO  You might	   A very very--pajock. 
 
HORATIO  You mightBut to confront the viBut to confront the viBut let me hear from you. 
 
OPHELIA  Do But let me hear from you. 
 
OPHELIA  Do Ears without hands or eyes, smelliEars without hands or eyes, smelli[Ent[Ent[Enter Polonius.] 
 
 
POLONIUS 
My[Enter Polonius.] 
 
 
POLONIUS 
MyFear it,Fear it,For husband shalt thou-- 
 
PLAYER QUEEN  O, conFor husband shalt thou-- 
 
PLAYER QUEEN  O, conCarve for himself, for on his choice depeCarve for himself, for on his choice depeEven to the teeth and forehead of our fauEven to the teeth and forehead of our fauEyes without feeling, feeling without sight,Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,For murder, though it have no tongue, willFor murder, though it have no tongue, will	For some must watch, while some must 	For some must watch, while some must For we will fetters put about this fear, 
WFor we will fetters put about this fear, 
W	For thou dost know, O Damon dear, 
	   T	For thou dost know, O Damon dear, 
	   TFrom fashion of himself. What think you on 't? From fashion of himself. What think you on 't? From our achievements, though performed aFrom our achievements, though performed aFrom that particular fault. The dram of evFrom that particular fault. The dram of evGUILDENSTERN  But these cannot I command to any 
uGUILDENSTERN  But these cannot I command to any 
uGUILDENSTERN  Nay, good my lord, this courtesGUILDENSTERN  Nay, good my lord, this courtesFor use almost can change the stamp of For use almost can change the stamp of GUILDENSTERN  The Queen your mother, in most GUILDENSTERN  The Queen your mother, in most GUILDENSTERN  We will ourselves provide.GUILDENSTERN  We will ourselves provide.[Ghost exits.] 
 
QUEEN 
This is the v[Ghost exits.] 
 
QUEEN 
This is the vGive it an understanding but no tongue. 
IGive it an understanding but no tongue. 
IGod bless you, sir. 
 
POLONIUS  My lord, the QGod bless you, sir. 
 
POLONIUS  My lord, the QGod willing, shall not lack. Let us gGod willing, shall not lack. Let us gGive him this money aGive him this money a"Good sir," or so, or "friend," or "gentl"Good sir," or so, or "friend," or "gentlGood night. But go not to myGood night. But go not to myHAMLET 
HAMLET 
HAMLET 
Why, look you there, look how it stealHAMLET 
Why, look you there, look how it stealHAMLEHAMLE[Enter Lucianus.] 
 
This is one Lucia[Enter Lucianus.] 
 
This is one LuciaHAMLET 
Your loves, as miHAMLET 
Your loves, as miHAMLET  A whole one, IHAMLET  A whole one, IHAMLET  HAMLET  HAMLET  Do you see yonder cloud that's almHAMLET  Do you see yonder cloud that's almHAMLET  Do you think I meant country HAMLET  Do you think I meant country HAMLET  Ecstasy? 
My pulse as yours doth temperHAMLET  Ecstasy? 
My pulse as yours doth temperHAMLET  Between whHAMLET  Between whHAMLET  For if the sun breed magHAMLET  For if the sun breed magHAMLET  HAMLET  HAMLET  Let her not walk i' th' sun. ConceptionHAMLET  Let her not walk i' th' sun. ConceptionHAMLET  It is as eHAMLET  It is as eHAMLET  Nothing. 
 
OPHELHAMLET  Nothing. 
 
OPHELHAMLET  HAMLET  For the supply and profit of our hope, 
Your For the supply and profit of our hope, 
Your For this effect defective comes by cause. 
Thus iFor this effect defective comes by cause. 
Thus iFortune that she sends you to prison hiFortune that she sends you to prison hiForward, not permanent, sweet, not lastingForward, not permanent, sweet, not lastingFor who that's but a queen, fair, sFor who that's but a queen, fair, sFor what advancement may I hFor what advancement may I hFor your desire to knFor your desire to kn	For us and for our tragedy, 
	He	For us and for our tragedy, 
	HeGHOSTGHOSTGUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouchsafe me aGUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouchsafe me aGUILDENSGUILDENSGUILDENSGUILDENSGUILDENSTERN  Prison, my lord? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  Prison, my lord? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  There are the players. 
 
HAMGUILDENSTERN  There are the players. 
 
HAMGive first admittance to th' ambassadoGive first admittance to th' ambassado[Ghost beckons.] 
 
HORATIO 
[Ghost beckons.] 
 
HORATIO 
GUILDENSTERN  O, there hasGUILDENSTERN  O, there hasGUILDENSTERN  But we both obey, 
AGUILDENSTERN  But we both obey, 
AGUILDENSTERN  Is in his retirement marvelous GUILDENSTERN  Is in his retirement marvelous GUILDENSTERN  My lord, weGUILDENSTERN  My lord, weGUILDENSTERN  O, my lord, if my duty be too boGUILDENSTERN  O, my lord, if my duty be too boGUILDENSTERN  My lord, I cGUILDENSTERN  My lord, I cGUILDENSTERN  What should we say, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  AnGUILDENSTERN  What should we say, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  AnGet you a place. 
 
[Enter Trumpets anGet you a place. 
 
[Enter Trumpets anGives him three-score thousand crownGives him three-score thousand crownGoes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walkeGoes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walkeGood my lord, tell it. 
 
HAMLET  No, you wilGood my lord, tell it. 
 
HAMLET  No, you wilGo to youGo to youHAMLET 
And therefore as aHAMLET 
And therefore as aHAMLET 
Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground. HAMLET 
Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground. HAMLET 
Upon my sword. 
 
MARCELLUS  We have HAMLET 
Upon my sword. 
 
MARCELLUS  We have HAMLET 
The King doHAMLET 
The King doHAMLET 
Angels and ministers of grace, defend us! 
Be thHAMLET 
Angels and ministers of grace, defend us! 
Be thHAMLET 
Never to speak of this that you have seen, HAMLET 
Never to speak of this that you have seen, HAMLET 
Do you not come your tardy son to chide, 
HAMLET 
Do you not come your tardy son to chide, 
HAMLET 
Well said, old mole. Canst work i' th' earthHAMLET 
Well said, old mole. Canst work i' th' earthHAMLET 
Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? Art thou there, HAMLET 
Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? Art thou there, HAMLEHAMLEHAMLET 
There's never a villHAMLET 
There's never a villHAMLET 
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but theHAMLET 
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but theHAMLET 
Look here upHAMLET 
Look here upHAMLET 
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man 
As e'HAMLET 
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man 
As e'HAMLET 
No, not I. I never gave you aught. 
 
OPHELIA 
MHAMLET 
No, not I. I never gave you aught. 
 
OPHELIA 
MHAMLET 
How say you, then? Would heart of man once HAMLET 
How say you, then? Would heart of man once HAMLET  A dream itself is but a shadow. 
 
RHAMLET  A dream itself is but a shadow. 
 
RHAMLET  Ay, truly, for the power of beauty will sooneHAMLET  Ay, truly, for the power of beauty will sooneHAMLET  Ah ha! Come, some music! Come, the 
recordHAMLET  Ah ha! Come, some music! Come, the 
recordHAMLET  Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; HAMLET  Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; HAMLET  Do they hold the same estimation they didHAMLET  Do they hold the same estimation they didHAMLET  A king of shreds and patches-- 
 
[Enter Ghost.HAMLET  A king of shreds and patches-- 
 
[Enter Ghost.HAMLET  Am I not i' thHAMLET  Am I not i' thHAMLET  Ay, or any show that you will show him. Be 
notHAMLET  Ay, or any show that you will show him. Be 
notHAMLET  Ay, sir, what of him? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  Is in HAMLET  Ay, sir, what of him? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  Is in HAMLET  But where was HAMLET  But where was HAMLET  Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. 
YourHAMLET  Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. 
YourHAMLET  Get thee to a nunnery. Why wouldst thouHAMLET  Get thee to a nunnery. Why wouldst thouHAMLET  A goodly one, in which there are manHAMLET  A goodly one, in which there are manHAMLET  Are you fair? 
 
OPHELIA  What means your LHAMLET  Are you fair? 
 
OPHELIA  What means your LHAMLET  "By and by" is easily said. Leave me, 
frHAMLET  "By and by" is easily said. Leave me, 
frHAMLET  Denmark's a prison. 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  ThHAMLET  Denmark's a prison. 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  ThHAMLET  Do the boys carry itHAMLET  Do the boys carry itHAMLET  Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too--at 
eachHAMLET  Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too--at 
eachHAMLET  He poisons him i' th' garden for his estHAMLET  He poisons him i' th' garden for his estHAMLET  How comes it? Do they gHAMLET  How comes it? Do they gHAMLET  He that plays the king shHAMLET  He that plays the king shHAMLET  I am but mad north-north-west. WhHAMLET  I am but mad north-north-west. WhHAMLET  I could interpret between youHAMLET  I could interpret between youHAMLET  Indeed, sirs, but this troubles me. 
Hold you HAMLET  Indeed, sirs, but this troubles me. 
Hold you HAMLET  I am tame, sir. Pronounce. 
 
GUILDENSHAMLET  I am tame, sir. Pronounce. 
 
GUILDENSHAMLET  Lady, shaHAMLET  Lady, shaHAMLET  You cannot, sir, take HAMLET  You cannot, sir, take HAMLET  No such matter. I will HAMLET  No such matter. I will HORATIO  I did very well note him. 
 
HAMLET  Ah HORATIO  I did very well note him. 
 
HAMLET  Ah Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? Art thou there, 
truHa, ha, boy, sayst thou so? Art thou there, 
truHORATIO  HORATIO  He closes tHe closes t[He reads the letter.] 
	Doubt thou the s[He reads the letter.] 
	Doubt thou the sHow now, my How now, my GUILDENSTERN  Believe me, I cannot.GUILDENSTERN  Believe me, I cannot.HAMLET  I do beseech you. 
 
GUILDENSTERN  I HAMLET  I do beseech you. 
 
GUILDENSTERN  I HAMLET  In the secret parts of ForHAMLET  In the secret parts of ForHAMLET  Make you a wholesome aHAMLET  Make you a wholesome aHAMLET  What ho, Horatio! 
 
[Enter Horatio.] 
 HAMLET  What ho, Horatio! 
 
[Enter Horatio.] 
 HORATIO  Very well, mHORATIO  Very well, mHold it a fashion and a toy in blood,Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,HAMLET  My excellent good friends! How dost thou, 
GuHAMLET  My excellent good friends! How dost thou, 
GuHAMLET  O good Horatio, I'll HAMLET  O good Horatio, I'll HAMLET  What, frighted with false fire? 
 
QUEENHAMLET  What, frighted with false fire? 
 
QUEENHAMLET  Nor tHAMLET  Nor tHORATIO 
O day and night, but this is wondrous straHORATIO 
O day and night, but this is wondrous straHis form and cause conjoined, preaching to stoHis form and cause conjoined, preaching to stoHere, as before, never, so help you mercy, 
How strHere, as before, never, so help you mercy, 
How strHow strange or odd some'er I bear myself 
(AHow strange or odd some'er I bear myself 
(AHAMLET, [aside]  These tediousHAMLET, [aside]  These tediousHath given me this. Now gatHath given me this. Now gatHORATIO  Is it a custom? 
 
HAMLET HORATIO  Is it a custom? 
 
HAMLET [He reads.] To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the 
[He reads.] To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the 
I doubt some foul play. Would the night wI doubt some foul play. Would the night wI have a dI have a dHAMLET  Upon the talk of the poisoningHAMLET  Upon the talk of the poisoningI have in quick determination 
Thus set it down: I have in quick determination 
Thus set it down: I'll call upon you ere you go to bed 
And tell yI'll call upon you ere you go to bed 
And tell yIn dreadful secrecy impartIn dreadful secrecy impartI saw him yesterday," or "th' other day" 
(Or then,I saw him yesterday," or "th' other day" 
(Or then,Is but to whet thy almost blunIs but to whet thy almost blunIt hath the primal eldest curse upon 't, 
A brotherIt hath the primal eldest curse upon 't, 
A brotherIt shall do well. But yet do I believe 
The originIt shall do well. But yet do I believe 
The originI will bestow him and wI will bestow him and wI will take my leave of you. 
 
HAMLET  You cannoI will take my leave of you. 
 
HAMLET  You cannoKING  How fares our cousin Hamlet? 
 
HAMLET  ExcKING  How fares our cousin Hamlet? 
 
HAMLET  ExcKING  Thanks, dear my KING  Thanks, dear my "King," "Father," "Royal Dane." O, answ"King," "Father," "Royal Dane." O, answLest with this piteous action you convert 
My sterLest with this piteous action you convert 
My sterLet the birds fly, and like the famous ape, 
To try cLet the birds fly, and like the famous ape, 
To try cLet me not burst in ignorance, but tell 
Why thy canoLet me not burst in ignorance, but tell 
Why thy canoLike sweet bells jangled, out of time and harLike sweet bells jangled, out of time and harKeeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reelKeeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reelLove? HLove? HMadam, I swear I use no art at all. 
That he'sMadam, I swear I use no art at all. 
That he'sMakes us traduced and taxed of other nations. 
They Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations. 
They May do t' express his love and friending to you, May do t' express his love and friending to you, Might, by the sovereign power you have of us, 
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us, 
More honored in the breach than the observance. 
More honored in the breach than the observance. 
GHOST [crGHOST [crHAMLET  It is not very strange; for my uncle is King oHAMLET  It is not very strange; for my uncle is King oHAMLET  I will tell you why; so shall my anticipatiHAMLET  I will tell you why; so shall my anticipatiHAMLET  It would cost you a groaning to take off mHAMLET  It would cost you a groaning to take off mHAMLET  Let the doors be shut upon him that he mHAMLET  Let the doors be shut upon him that he mHAMLET  Nay, that follows not. 
 
POLONIUS  What fHAMLET  Nay, that follows not. 
 
POLONIUS  What fHAMLET  No, you will reveal it. 
 
HORATIO 
Not IHAMLET  No, you will reveal it. 
 
HORATIO 
Not IHAMLETHAMLETHAMLET  O, wonderful! 
 
HORATIO 
Good my HAMLET  O, wonderful! 
 
HORATIO 
Good my HAMLET  Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue sayHAMLET  Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue sayHAMLET  So you mis-take your husbands.--Begin, 
murdHAMLET  So you mis-take your husbands.--Begin, 
murdHAMLET  I will prophesy he comes to tell me oHAMLET  I will prophesy he comes to tell me oHAMLET  My lord, I have news to tell you: when RoscHAMLET  My lord, I have news to tell you: when RoscHAMLHAMLHAMLET  Well, God-a-mercy. 
 
POLOHAMLET  Well, God-a-mercy. 
 
POLOHAMLET  Such an act 
That blurs the grace and blusHAMLET  Such an act 
That blurs the grace and blusHAMLET  What did you enact? 
 
POLONIUS  I did enact JHAMLET  What did you enact? 
 
POLONIUS  I did enact JHAMLET  What hour now? 
 
HORATIO  I think it lacks oHAMLET  What hour now? 
 
HORATIO  I think it lacks oHAMLET  Who, I? 
 
OPHELIA  Ay, my lHAMLET  Who, I? 
 
OPHELIA  Ay, my lHAMLET  Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing 
yHAMLET  Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing 
yHAMLET  Why, right, you are in the rightHAMLET  Why, right, you are in the rightHAMLET  You are welcome. 
 
GUILDENSTERN  NayHAMLET  You are welcome. 
 
GUILDENSTERN  NayHAMLET, [aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--IfHAMLET, [aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--IfHAMLET  Methinks it is likHAMLET  Methinks it is likHAMLET  No, good mother. Here's metal moHAMLET  No, good mother. Here's metal moHAMLET  O, reform it altogether. And let those that pHAMLET  O, reform it altogether. And let those that pHAMLET  So be it. 
 
MARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, mHAMLET  So be it. 
 
MARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, mHAMLET  O wonderful son that can so 'stonish a mothHAMLET  O wonderful son that can so 'stonish a mothHAMLET  Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounceHAMLET  Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounceHAMLET  Then I will come to my mother by and by. 
[AHAMLET  Then I will come to my mother by and by. 
[AHAMLET  That if you be honest and fair, your hoHAMLET  That if you be honest and fair, your hoHAMLET  Then I would you were so honest a man. 
 
HAMLET  Then I would you were so honest a man. 
 
HAMLET  That's a fair thought to lie between maids' 
legs. HAMLET  That's a fair thought to lie between maids' 
legs. HAMLET  They are coming to the play. I mHAMLET  They are coming to the play. I mHAMLET  What, are they children? Who maintains 'eHAMLET  What, are they children? Who maintains 'eHAMLET  Then came each actor on his ass. 
 
POLOHAMLET  Then came each actor on his ass. 
 
POLOHAMLET  'Tis very strange. 
 
HORATIO 
As IHAMLET  'Tis very strange. 
 
HORATIO 
As IHAMLET  We shall know by this fellow. The players 
caHAMLET  We shall know by this fellow. The players 
caHAMLET  Why, 
	One fair daughter, and no moreHAMLET  Why, 
	One fair daughter, and no moreHAMLET  So long? Nay, then, let the devil weaHAMLET  So long? Nay, then, let the devil weaHAMLET  Why did you laugh, then, when I said "maHAMLET  Why did you laugh, then, when I said "maHAMLET  Nay, do not think I flatter, 
For what advHAMLET  Nay, do not think I flatter, 
For what advHAMLET  With drink, sir? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  No, my HAMLET  With drink, sir? 
 
GUILDENSTERN  No, my HAMLET  Words, words, words. 
 
HAMLET  Words, words, words. 
 
HORATIO 
Not I, my lord, by heaven. 
 
MARCELLUS  NHORATIO 
Not I, my lord, by heaven. 
 
MARCELLUS  NHORATIO 
HORATIO 
HORATIO 
As I do live, my honored lord, 'tis trueHORATIO 
As I do live, my honored lord, 'tis trueHORATIO 
Good my HORATIO 
Good my HORATIO 
Indeed, I heard it not. It then draws near tHORATIO 
Indeed, I heard it not. It then draws near tHORATIO 
These are but wild and whirling words, HORATIO 
These are but wild and whirling words, HORATIO 
Do not, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, what HORATIO 
Do not, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, what HORATIO 
What if it tempt you toward the floHORATIO 
What if it tempt you toward the floHe took me by the wrist and held me hard. 
Then goesHe took me by the wrist and held me hard. 
Then goesHORATIO 
O, my dear lord-- 
 
HAMLET  Nay, do notHORATIO 
O, my dear lord-- 
 
HAMLET  Nay, do notHe likewise gives a frock or livery 
That aptly is puHe likewise gives a frock or livery 
That aptly is puIf I had played the desk or table-book 
Or giveIf I had played the desk or table-book 
Or giveHeavens make our presence and our practices 
PlHeavens make our presence and our practices 
PlHORATIO  I think it lacks of twelve. 
 
MARCELLUHORATIO  I think it lacks of twelve. 
 
MARCELLUHORATIO/MARCELLUS   Ay, by heaven, my lord. 
 
HAMLHORATIO/MARCELLUS   Ay, by heaven, my lord. 
 
HAMLHORATIO  In faith, my lord, not I. HORATIO  In faith, my lord, not I. HORATIO  Here, sweet lord, at your service. 
 
HAMHORATIO  Here, sweet lord, at your service. 
 
HAMHORATIO  My lord, I did, 
But answer maHORATIO  My lord, I did, 
But answer maHORATIO  What is 't, my lord? We will. 
 
HAMLET 
NeHORATIO  What is 't, my lord? We will. 
 
HAMLET 
NeHORATIO  Well, my lord. 
If he steal aught the whilsHORATIO  Well, my lord. 
If he steal aught the whilsHORATIO  My lord, my lord! 
 
MARCELLUS  Lord HamlHORATIO  My lord, my lord! 
 
MARCELLUS  Lord HamlHave I, my lord? I assure my Have I, my lord? I assure my He closes with you in this consequence: 
"Good siHe closes with you in this consequence: 
"Good si[He exits.] 
 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter King,[He exits.] 
 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter King,Have you so slander any moment leisurHave you so slander any moment leisurHerod. Pray you, avoid it. 
 
PLAYER  I wHerod. Pray you, avoid it. 
 
PLAYER  I wHis father's death and our o'erhasty marriage. 
 
KIHis father's death and our o'erhasty marriage. 
 
KIHORATIO  You might have rhymed. 
 
HAMLET  O good HorHORATIO  You might have rhymed. 
 
HAMLET  O good HorHast ta'en with equal thanks; and blessed are thoseHast ta'en with equal thanks; and blessed are thoseHath oped his ponderous and marble jaws 
To cast thHath oped his ponderous and marble jaws 
To cast thHath sealed thee for herself. For thou hast bHath sealed thee for herself. For thou hast bHath there been such a time (I would fain know 
thatHath there been such a time (I would fain know 
thatHave burst their cerements; why the sepulcherHave burst their cerements; why the sepulcher[He exits.] 
 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter Laertes and[He exits.] 
 
Scene 3 
======= 
[Enter Laertes and[He gives a paper.] 
That it might please you to g[He gives a paper.] 
That it might please you to gHe hath, my lord, of late made many tenders 
OfHe hath, my lord, of late made many tenders 
OfHe may not, as unvalued persons do, 
Carve for himseHe may not, as unvalued persons do, 
Carve for himseHere in the lobby. 
 
QUEEN  So he does indeed.Here in the lobby. 
 
QUEEN  So he does indeed.Here is your husband, like a mildewed ear 
BlasHere is your husband, like a mildewed ear 
Blas[He writes.] 
So, uncle, there you are. No[He writes.] 
So, uncle, there you are. NoHis virtues else, be they as pure as grace, 
As His virtues else, be they as pure as grace, 
As Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man 
As e'er my Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man 
As e'er my I am sorry they offend you, heartily; 
Yes, fI am sorry they offend you, heartily; 
Yes, fI do not know, my lord, what I should think. 
I do not know, my lord, what I should think. 
If he steal aught the whilst this plaIf he steal aught the whilst this plaHow does your Honor forHow does your Honor forI'll visit you. 
 
ALL  Our duty to your HonoI'll visit you. 
 
ALL  Our duty to your HonoHow in my words How in my words Is it your own inclining? Is it a Is it your own inclining? Is it a If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones, 
To flIf thou canst mutine in a matron's bones, 
To flI must be cruel oI must be cruel oIf you have hitherto concealed this sight, 
Let it be tIf you have hitherto concealed this sight, 
Let it be tI will be brief. Your noble son is mad. 
"MaI will be brief. Your noble son is mad. 
"MaHe tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found 
The heHe tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found 
The heKING  But how hath she received his love? 
 
POLONKING  But how hath she received his love? 
 
POLONLAERTES 
My necessaries are embarked. Farewell. 
And, LAERTES 
My necessaries are embarked. Farewell. 
And, If it be so (as so 'tis put on mIf it be so (as so 'tis put on mIt fits your wisdom so far toIt fits your wisdom so far toItself to motion, like as it would sItself to motion, like as it would sI would fain prove so. But what might you thinkI would fain prove so. But what might you thinkKING 
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us 
KING 
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us 
KING 
As of a man faithful and honorabKING 
As of a man faithful and honorabKING  Give me some light. Away! 
 
POLONIUS  Lights, KING  Give me some light. Away! 
 
POLONIUS  Lights, KING  It shall be so. 
Madness in great ones must noKING  It shall be so. 
Madness in great ones must noLay not that flattering unction to your soul 
ThatLay not that flattering unction to your soul 
ThatIs very cunning in. 
 
HAMLET  Ecstasy? 
My pulsIs very cunning in. 
 
HAMLET  Ecstasy? 
My pulsKing and King and HORATIO  No, by no means. 
 
HAMLET HORATIO  No, by no means. 
 
HAMLET How is 't, my noble lord? 
 
HORATIO  What newsHow is 't, my noble lord? 
 
HORATIO  What newsHow are they escoted? Will they pursue the qualiHow are they escoted? Will they pursue the qualiHow say you, thenHow say you, thenI'll board him presently. O, give me lI'll board him presently. O, give me lIf circumstances lead me, I will find 
Where trIf circumstances lead me, I will find 
Where trInquire me first what Danskers are in Paris; 
And hInquire me first what Danskers are in Paris; 
And hI doubt it is no other but the main-I doubt it is no other but the main-Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven, 
RepInfects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven, 
RepI will requite your loves. So fare you well. 
UI will requite your loves. So fare you well. 
UKING  Not that I know. 
 
POLONIUS 
Take this fromKING  Not that I know. 
 
POLONIUS 
Take this fromKING  We will try it. 
 
[Enter Hamlet reading KING  We will try it. 
 
[Enter Hamlet reading KING 
Arm you, I pray you, KING 
Arm you, I pray you, KING  How may we try it further? 
 
POLONIUKING  How may we try it further? 
 
POLONIULet it be tenable in your silence still; 
And whatsomeLet it be tenable in your silence still; 
And whatsomeHunts not the trail ofHunts not the trail ofI like him not, nor stands it safe with us 
ToI like him not, nor stands it safe with us 
ToLook where he goes Look where he goes Let me be no assistant foLet me be no assistant foMadness in great ones must not unwatchedMadness in great ones must not unwatchedMark you, your party in converse, him you would 
sMark you, your party in converse, him you would 
s"Mad" call I it, for, to define true madness, 
What i"Mad" call I it, for, to define true madness, 
What iMARCELLUS  We have sworn, my lord, alreadMARCELLUS  We have sworn, my lord, alreadMarry, I will teach you. Think yourself a baby 
That you haMarry, I will teach you. Think yourself a baby 
That you haMarry, well said, very well said. Look you, sirMarry, well said, very well said. Look you, sirMost holy and religious fear it is 
To keep those many Most holy and religious fear it is 
To keep those many My father, in his habitMy father, in his habitI hold my duty as I hold my soul, 
Both to my God anI hold my duty as I hold my soul, 
Both to my God anIn noise soIn noise soIn censure of his seeming. 
 
HORATIO  WelIn censure of his seeming. 
 
HORATIO  WelI have swornI have swornI pray you now receive them. 
 
I pray you now receive them. 
 
In my heart's core, ay, in my heaIn my heart's core, ay, in my heaI stay too long. But here my father comeI stay too long. But here my father comeIt is an honest ghost--that let me tell you.It is an honest ghost--that let me tell you.It is "adieu, adieu, remember me." 
I have sworn 't. 
It is "adieu, adieu, remember me." 
I have sworn 't. 
It waves you to a more removed groIt waves you to a more removed groI will go pray. 
 
HORATIO 
ThI will go pray. 
 
HORATIO 
ThKING 
Well, we shall sift him. 
 
[EnKING 
Well, we shall sift him. 
 
[EnKING  It likKING  It likI hold it fit that I hold it fit that Indeed, I heard it Indeed, I heard it In his true nature, and we ourselves coIn his true nature, and we ourselves coIn honorable fashion-- 
 
POLONIUS 
Ay, "fashionIn honorable fashion-- 
 
POLONIUS 
Ay, "fashionIt beckons you to go away with it 
As if It beckons you to go away with it 
As if KING 
O, speak of thKING 
O, speak of thIt is a damned ghost that we have seen, 
And my iIt is a damned ghost that we have seen, 
And my iKING 
Thyself do grace to them and bring them iKING 
Thyself do grace to them and bring them iIt was against your Highness. Whereat, grieved 
That sIt was against your Highness. Whereat, grieved 
That sIt is a nipping and an eager air. 
 
HAMLET  WhaIt is a nipping and an eager air. 
 
HAMLET  WhaLUCIANUS 
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and tLUCIANUS 
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and tLAERTES  Think it no more. 
For nature, crescentLAERTES  Think it no more. 
For nature, crescentLet me be cruel, not unnatural. 
I will speak daggers Let me be cruel, not unnatural. 
I will speak daggers Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed, 
Pinch Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed, 
Pinch Look here upon this picture and on this, 
The counteLook here upon this picture and on this, 
The counteLook to 't, I charge you. Come your ways. 
 
OPHELIALook to 't, I charge you. Come your ways. 
 
OPHELIAIs apoplexed; for madness would not err, 
Nor sense tIs apoplexed; for madness would not err, 
Nor sense tKING 
Thou still hast been the fathKING 
Thou still hast been the fathLends the tongue vows. These blazes, dauLends the tongue vows. These blazes, dauLords attendant with the King's guard carrying 
torLords attendant with the King's guard carrying 
torMARCELLUS  Look with what courteous action 
It waveMARCELLUS  Look with what courteous action 
It waveMARCELLUS  No, it is struck. 
 
HORATIO 
IndeeMARCELLUS  No, it is struck. 
 
HORATIO 
IndeeMARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord. 
 
HAMLET 
How say MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord. 
 
HAMLET 
How say MARCELLUS 
How is 't, my noble lord? 
 
HORATIOMARCELLUS 
How is 't, my noble lord? 
 
HORATIOMad for thy love? 
 
OPHELIA  My lord, I do not knowMad for thy love? 
 
OPHELIA  My lord, I do not knowMake you to ravel all this matter out 
That I esseMake you to ravel all this matter out 
That I esseMay give his saying deed, which is no furtherMay give his saying deed, which is no furtherMakes vow before his uncle never more 
To give Makes vow before his uncle never more 
To give May one be pardoned and retain th' offense? 
In the cMay one be pardoned and retain th' offense? 
In the cMARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, my lord! 
 
HAMLET  HilMARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, my lord! 
 
HAMLET  HilMajesty shall have tribute on me. The adventurouMajesty shall have tribute on me. The adventurouMaking night hideous, and we fools of naturMaking night hideous, and we fools of naturMeantime, we thank you for your well-took laboMeantime, we thank you for your well-took laboMost fair return of greetings and desires. 
UMost fair return of greetings and desires. 
UMost welcome home! 
[Voltemand and Cornelius exit.] 
 Most welcome home! 
[Voltemand and Cornelius exit.] 
 My crown, mine own ambition, and mMy crown, mine own ambition, and mMy father's spirit--in arms! All is not well. My father's spirit--in arms! All is not well. My fault is past. But, O, what form My fault is past. But, O, what form MARCELLUS  Lord Hamlet. 
 
HORATIO  HeavMARCELLUS  Lord Hamlet. 
 
HORATIO  HeavMy honored lord, you know right well you didMy honored lord, you know right well you didMy liege, and madam, to expostulate 
WhatMy liege, and madam, to expostulate 
WhatMy lord, I have. 
 
POLONIUS  God be wi' you. FaMy lord, I have. 
 
POLONIUS  God be wi' you. FaMy lord, I have remembrances of yours 
TMy lord, I have remembrances of yours 
TMy lord, as I was sewing in my closet, My lord, as I was sewing in my closet, My lord, he hath importuned me with love 
In honMy lord, he hath importuned me with love 
In honMy lord, he's going to his mother's closet. 
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet. 
My lord, upon the platform where we watcMy lord, upon the platform where we watcMy necessaries are embarked. Farewell. 
And, sisteMy necessaries are embarked. Farewell. 
And, sisteMy news shall be the fruit to that greaMy news shall be the fruit to that greaMy pulse as yours doth temperately keep time 
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time 
My stern effects. Then whaMy stern effects. Then whaMy stronger guilMy stronger guilFor the apparel oft proclaims the man, 
And they in For the apparel oft proclaims the man, 
And they in For we have closely sent foFor we have closely sent foFrom me, whose love was of thatFrom me, whose love was of thatGHOST 
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beasGHOST 
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beasGHOST 
Murder most foul, as in the best it GHOST 
Murder most foul, as in the best it GHOST  I find thee apt; 
And duller shGHOST  I find thee apt; 
And duller shFor who would bear the whips and scorns of timFor who would bear the whips and scorns of timFull thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone rouFull thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone rouGHOST 
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murdeGHOST 
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murde[Ghost and Hamlet exit.] 
 
HORATIO 
He wax[Ghost and Hamlet exit.] 
 
HORATIO 
He waxFor who not needs shall never lack a friend,For who not needs shall never lack a friend,GHOST 
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt GHOST 
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt Good gentlemen, give him a further edGood gentlemen, give him a further edGHOST 
Mark me. 
 
HAMLET  I will. 
 
GHOST  MGHOST 
Mark me. 
 
HAMLET  I will. 
 
GHOST  MGHOST  My hour is almost come 
When GHOST  My hour is almost come 
When GUILDENSTERN 
Nor do we find him forward toGUILDENSTERN 
Nor do we find him forward to'Gainst Fort'Gainst FortGo, go, you question with a wicked tonGo, go, you question with a wicked tonGUILDENSTERN 
But with much forcing of his dispGUILDENSTERN 
But with much forcing of his dispGonzago is the duke's name, his wife BaptistGonzago is the duke's name, his wife BaptistGrapple them unto thy soul with hoops of stGrapple them unto thy soul with hoops of stFor 'tis a question left us yet to prove 
WhethFor 'tis a question left us yet to prove 
WhethGHOST  I am thy father's spirit, 
DoomGHOST  I am thy father's spirit, 
DoomGet from him why he puts on this confusGet from him why he puts on this confusGHOST 
Pity me not, but lend thy serious GHOST 
Pity me not, but lend thy serious Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice. 
TaGive every man thy ear, but few thy voice. 
TaGrating so harshly Grating so harshly Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.Guildenstern, and Lords.] 
 
 
KING 
Guildenstern, and Lords.] 
 
 
KING 
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now, 
AnGrows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now, 
AnHAMLET 
It waves me still.--Go on, I'll follow HAMLET 
It waves me still.--Go on, I'll follow HAMLET 
How now, a rat? HAMLET 
How now, a rat? HAMLET  And do still, by thHAMLET  And do still, by thHAMLET 
Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak. I'll go nHAMLET 
Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak. I'll go nHAMLET 
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue. 
 
HAMLET 
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue. 
 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it was my word. HAMLET  Ay, lady, it was my word. HAMLET 
ArmeHAMLET 
ArmeHAMLET 
Now might I do it pat, now he is a-pHAMLET 
Now might I do it pat, now he is a-pHAMLET 
A bloody deed--almoHAMLET 
A bloody deed--almoHAMLET 
O all you host of heaven! O Earth! WhaHAMLET 
O all you host of heaven! O Earth! WhaHAMLET 
If iHAMLET 
If iHAMLET 
Mother, you have my father much offendedHAMLET 
Mother, you have my father much offendedHAMLET  Ay, sir, but "While the grass groHAMLET  Ay, sir, but "While the grass groHAMLET  If she should break it now! 
 
PLAYEHAMLET  If she should break it now! 
 
PLAYEHAMLET  His beard was grizzled, no? 
 
HAMLET  His beard was grizzled, no? 
 
HAMLET  I would I had been there. 
 
HORATIHAMLET  I would I had been there. 
 
HORATIHAMLET  It shall to the barber's with your beardHAMLET  It shall to the barber's with your beardHAMLET  Madam, how like you this play? 
 
HAMLET  Madam, how like you this play? 
 
HAMLET  O, HAMLET  O, HAMLET  O, but she'll keep her word. 
 
KINHAMLET  O, but she'll keep her word. 
 
KINHAMLET  From top to toe? 
 
ALL  My lord,HAMLET  From top to toe? 
 
ALL  My lord,HAMLET  God's bodykins, man, much better! Use HAMLET  God's bodykins, man, much better! Use HAMLET  Follow him, friends. We'll hear aHAMLET  Follow him, friends. We'll hear aHAMLET  Hold off your hands. 
 
HORATIO 
BeHAMLET  Hold off your hands. 
 
HORATIO 
BeHAMLET  Murder? 
 
GHOST 
Murder most foul, as iHAMLET  Murder? 
 
GHOST 
Murder most foul, as iHAMLET  Now, mother, whaHAMLET  Now, mother, whaHAMLET  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest HAMLET  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest HAMLET  We shall obey, were she ten timHAMLET  We shall obey, were she ten timHORATIO 
While one with moderate haste might tell a 
huHORATIO 
While one with moderate haste might tell a 
huHORATIO 
Not when I saw 't. 
 
HAMLET  His beard wHORATIO 
Not when I saw 't. 
 
HAMLET  His beard wHORATIO 
Be ruled. You shall not go. 
 
HAMLET  MyHORATIO 
Be ruled. You shall not go. 
 
HAMLET  MyHamlet, thou hast thy father much offended. 
 
HAMLETHamlet, thou hast thy father much offended. 
 
HAMLETI hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord. 
[TheI hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord. 
[TheHAMLET  We'll ha 't tomorrow night. You couldHAMLET  We'll ha 't tomorrow night. You couldHAMLET  What's the matter now? 
 
QUEEN 
Have you forHAMLET  What's the matter now? 
 
QUEEN 
Have you forHAMLET,HAMLET,Mother, you have my father much offended. 
 
QUEEN Mother, you have my father much offended. 
 
QUEEN HORATIO 
Nay, very pale. 
 
HAMLET  And fHORATIO 
Nay, very pale. 
 
HAMLET  And fHORATIO 
Most constantly. 
 
HAMLET  I woulHORATIO 
Most constantly. 
 
HAMLET  I woulHORATIO  It would have much amazed you. 
 
HAMLET  VHORATIO  It would have much amazed you. 
 
HAMLET  VHaste me to know 't, that Haste me to know 't, that [He pulls Polonius' b[He pulls Polonius' bHave you forgot me? 
 
HAMLET  No, by the roodHave you forgot me? 
 
HAMLET  No, by the roodHow smart a lash that speech doth give my 
conscience. 
THow smart a lash that speech doth give my 
conscience. 
TIn mincing with his sword her husband's limbs, 
The iIn mincing with his sword her husband's limbs, 
The iI hear him coming. 
[Polonius hidI hear him coming. 
[Polonius hidIn neither aught, or in exIn neither aught, or in exI made to her in marriage, and to decline 
Upon a wrI made to her in marriage, and to decline 
Upon a wrIs by a forged process of my death 
Rankly abIs by a forged process of my death 
Rankly ab	It came to pass, as most like it was-- 
the fi	It came to pass, as most like it was-- 
the fiI took thee foI took thee foIt waves me still.--Go on,It waves me still.--Go on,KING  Have you heard the argument? Is there no 
oKING  Have you heard the argument? Is there no 
oKING, [aside]  O, 'tis too true! 
How smart a lash tKING, [aside]  O, 'tis too true! 
How smart a lash tMuch heat and him. I'll silence me even here. 
Pray youMuch heat and him. I'll silence me even here. 
Pray youMost constantly. 
 
HAMLETMost constantly. 
 
HAMLETMy cusMy cusNay, then I'll set thoseNay, then I'll set thoseNot when I saw 't. 
 
HAMLET  His beNot when I saw 't. 
 
HAMLET  His beNow I am alone.Now I am alone.Now is he total gules, horridly trickedNow is he total gules, horridly trickedMARCELLUS 
You shall not go, my lord.	[TheMARCELLUS 
You shall not go, my lord.	[TheMay sweep to my revenge. 
 
GHOST  I finMay sweep to my revenge. 
 
GHOST  I finNow wears his crown. 
 
HAMLET  O, my propNow wears his crown. 
 
HAMLET  O, my propNow might I do it pat, now he is a-praying, Now might I do it pat, now he is a-praying, O Hamlet, what a falling off was there! 
FromO Hamlet, what a falling off was there! 
FromO all you host of heaven! O Earth! What else? O all you host of heaven! O Earth! What else? Of each new-hatched, unfledged courage. Beware Of each new-hatched, unfledged courage. Beware Of entranceOf entranceO heavy burden! 
 
POLONIUS 
I hear hiO heavy burden! 
 
POLONIUS 
I hear hiMy spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguilMy spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguilHAMLET  I heard thee speak me a speech onHAMLET  I heard thee speak me a speech onHAMLET  I will. 
 
GHOST  My hour is almost comeHAMLET  I will. 
 
GHOST  My hour is almost comeHAMLET  Nay, I know not. Is it the King? 
 
QUHAMLET  Nay, I know not. Is it the King? 
 
QUHAMLET  No, by the rood, not so. 
You arHAMLET  No, by the rood, not so. 
You arHAMLET  Pale or red? 
 
HORATIO 
Nay, HAMLET  Pale or red? 
 
HORATIO 
Nay, HAMLET  My fate cries out 
And makes each pHAMLET  My fate cries out 
And makes each pHAMLET  No, no, they do but jest, poiHAMLET  No, no, they do but jest, poiHAMLET  O God! 
 
GHOST 
Revenge his foul aHAMLET  O God! 
 
GHOST 
Revenge his foul aHAMLET  Sir, I lack advancement. 
 
ROSHAMLET  Sir, I lack advancement. 
 
ROSHAMLET  I will watch tonight. 
PerchanHAMLET  I will watch tonight. 
PerchanHAMLET  That's wormwood! 
 
PLAYER QUEENHAMLET  That's wormwood! 
 
PLAYER QUEENHAMLET  Then saw you not his face? 
 
HORATIO HAMLET  Then saw you not his face? 
 
HORATIO HAMLET  "The Mousetrap." Marry, how? TropicaHAMLET  "The Mousetrap." Marry, how? TropicaHAMLET  What? 
 
GHOST  I am thy father's spirit, 
DoHAMLET  What? 
 
GHOST  I am thy father's spirit, 
DoHAMLET  What, looked he frowningly? 
 
HORHAMLET  What, looked he frowningly? 
 
HORHORATIO 
Heaven will direct it. 
 
MARCELLUS  NaHORATIO 
Heaven will direct it. 
 
MARCELLUS  NaHORATIO 
He waxes desperate with imagHORATIO 
He waxes desperate with imagHORATIO 
Have after. To what issue wilHORATIO 
Have after. To what issue wilHath now this dread and black complexion Hath now this dread and black complexion [Hamlet exits.] 
 
KING, [rising] 
My words fly[Hamlet exits.] 
 
KING, [rising] 
My words flyHORATIO 
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver HORATIO 
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver HORATIO HORATIO Ha! 'SwoundsHa! 'SwoundsHave after. To what issue will this come? Have after. To what issue will this come? Have you any further trade with us? 
 
ROSHave you any further trade with us? 
 
ROSHeaven will direct it. 
 
MARCELLUS  Nay, Heaven will direct it. 
 
MARCELLUS  Nay, He does confess he feels himself distracted, 
He does confess he feels himself distracted, 
Have, by the very cunning of the sceHave, by the very cunning of the sce[He exits.] 
 
 
ACT 3 
=====[He exits.] 
 
 
ACT 3 
=====HAMLET  Speak. I am bound to hear. 
HAMLET  Speak. I am bound to hear. 
Help, ho! 
 
POLONIUS, [behind the arraHelp, ho! 
 
POLONIUS, [behind the arraHis greatness weighed, his will is not His greatness weighed, his will is not How now, a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead. 
How now, a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead. 
I could a tale unfold whose lightest worI could a tale unfold whose lightest worIn general synod take away her power, 
Break allIn general synod take away her power, 
Break all[He kills Polonius by thrusting a rapier 
through t[He kills Polonius by thrusting a rapier 
through tKING 
And can you by no drift of conferenceKING 
And can you by no drift of conference[He exits.] 
 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Qu[He exits.] 
 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter QuI know my course. The spirit that I have seeI know my course. The spirit that I have seeI'll tent him to the quick. If he do blench, I'll tent him to the quick. If he do blench, KING  What do you call the play? 
 
HAMLKING  What do you call the play? 
 
HAMLKING, [rising] 
My words fly up, my thoughts KING, [rising] 
My words fly up, my thoughts Like quills upon the fearful porpentiLike quills upon the fearful porpentiMake thy two eyes, like stars, start frMake thy two eyes, like stars, start frMay be a devil, and the devil hath poweMay be a devil, and the devil hath poweHORATIO 
A countenance more in sorrow than inHORATIO 
A countenance more in sorrow than inHer father and myself, lawful espials, 
Will sHer father and myself, lawful espials, 
Will sHe took my He took my HonorHonorI do I do If 't bIf 't bI, his I, his I'll wipe away all trivial, fond records, 
All sawsI'll wipe away all trivial, fond records, 
All sawsI say, away!--Go on. I'llI say, away!--Go on. I'llIn sIn sIn thews and bulk, but, as this templIn thews and bulk, but, as this templIf, once a widow, ever I be wife. 
 
HAMLETIf, once a widow, ever I be wife. 
 
HAMLETKING 
With all my heart, and it doth mucKING 
With all my heart, and it doth mucKING  Sweet Gertrude, leave us too, KING  Sweet Gertrude, leave us too, Let's folloLet's folloIf thou didst ever thy dear father love-- 
 If thou didst ever thy dear father love-- 
 I should have fatted all the region kites 
WitI should have fatted all the region kites 
WitIt was as I It was as I Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my causLike John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my causLook thou character. Give thy thoughtLook thou character. Give thy thoughtMARCELLUS 
Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus toMARCELLUS 
Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus toMARCELLUS  Nay, leMARCELLUS  Nay, leMadam, it so fell out that certMadam, it so fell out that certMost free in his reply. 
 
QUEEN  DMost free in his reply. 
 
QUEEN  DMore relativMore relativNay, very pale. 
 
HAMLET  And fixed his Nay, very pale. 
 
HAMLET  And fixed his Neptune's sNeptune's sMeet what I would have well and it destMeet what I would have well and it destNiggard of question, buNiggard of question, buNor do we find him forward to be soundedNor do we find him forward to be soundedMost necessMost necessOPHELIA  Madam, I wish it may. 
[Queen exiOPHELIA  Madam, I wish it may. 
[Queen exiOf his true state. 
 
QUEEN  Did he receive youOf his true state. 
 
QUEEN  Did he receive youOf reverend Priam, seemed i' th' air toOf reverend Priam, seemed i' th' air toOf violent birth, but poor validity, 
Which nOf violent birth, but poor validity, 
Which nMost lazar-like, with vile and loathsomeMost lazar-like, with vile and loathsomeMust give us pause. There's thMust give us pause. There's thMy operant powers their fMy operant powers their fMust, like a whore, unpack my heart with wordMust, like a whore, unpack my heart with wordMy words fly up, my thoughtMy words fly up, my thoughtNor Nor No reck'ning made, but sent to my account 
WitNo reck'ning made, but sent to my account 
WitNone wed the second but None wed the second but Now what my love is, proof hath made yoNow what my love is, proof hath made yoNow falls on Priam. 
Out, out, thou strumpNow falls on Priam. 
Out, out, thou strumpOf Hamlet'sOf Hamlet'sOld grandsire Priam seeks. 
So, proceed you. 
 
Old grandsire Priam seeks. 
So, proceed you. 
 
Nor any unproporNor any unproporOn Mars's armor, forged for proof eOn Mars's armor, forged for proof eOr in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed, 
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed, 
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I! O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I! Of life, of crowOf life, of crowOr to take arms against a sea of troubOr to take arms against a sea of troubOur wills and fates do so contrary run 
That Our wills and fates do so contrary run 
That Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All yoOut, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All yoO wicked wit and gifts, that have thO wicked wit and gifts, that have thOur thoughts are ours, their ends none ofOur thoughts are ours, their ends none ofO, what a rash and bloodyO, what a rash and bloodyOut of my weakness and mOut of my weakness and mPLAYER KING 
Faith, I must leave theePLAYER KING 
Faith, I must leave theePLAYER KING 
I do believe you think what nPLAYER KING 
I do believe you think what nO vengeance! 
Why, what an ass am I! This is most O vengeance! 
Why, what an ass am I! This is most PLAYER QUEEN 
Nor Earth to me give foodPLAYER QUEEN 
Nor Earth to me give foodPLAYER KING 
'Tis dePLAYER KING 
'Tis dePLAYER QUEEN 
The instances thPLAYER QUEEN 
The instances thPLAYER QUEEN  PLAYER QUEEN  POLONIUSPOLONIUSOphelia, walk you here.--Gracious, so please you,Ophelia, walk you here.--Gracious, so please you,HAMLET  Why, 
	As by lot, God wot 
and then, you knoHAMLET  Why, 
	As by lot, God wot 
and then, you knoIf itIf itMy tongue and soul in this be hypocriteMy tongue and soul in this be hypocriteLAERTES 
Farewell, Ophelia, and remember wellLAERTES 
Farewell, Ophelia, and remember wellMy tables--meet it is I set it down 
That one may sMy tables--meet it is I set it down 
That one may sLAERTES 
Most humbly do I take myLAERTES 
Most humbly do I take myNay, come, let's gNay, come, let's gNever make known what you have sNever make known what you have sMost humbly do I take my leave, my lord. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord. New-lightedNew-lightedNo hat upon his head, his stockings fouled, 
UnNo hat upon his head, his stockings fouled, 
UnNo, in despite of sense and secrecy, 
UnpegNo, in despite of sense and secrecy, 
UnpegNo, let the candied tongue lick absurd pNo, let the candied tongue lick absurd pHAMLET  Is thisHAMLET  Is thisNo, not No, not No more, sweet Hamlet! 
 
HAMLET  A murdereNo more, sweet Hamlet! 
 
HAMLET  A murdereNor what he spakNor what he spakNot I, my lord,Not I, my lord,Never Never Never to speak of this that you have seenNever to speak of this that you have seenOPHELIA 
O, what a noble mind is here o'eOPHELIA 
O, what a noble mind is here o'eOPHELIA  At home, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Let thOPHELIA  At home, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Let thOPHELIA  Belike this show imports the argOPHELIA  Belike this show imports the argOPHELIA 
So please you, something touching theOPHELIA 
So please you, something touching theOPHELIA  Heavenly powers, restore himOPHELIA  Heavenly powers, restore himOPHELIA  'Tis brief, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  As wOPHELIA  'Tis brief, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  As wOPHELIA  What means this, my lord? 
 
HAMLOPHELIA  What means this, my lord? 
 
HAMLO day and night, but this is wondrous strO day and night, but this is wondrous strO, my offense is rank, it smells to heaven; 
It haO, my offense is rank, it smells to heaven; 
It haOPHELIA  O, help him, you sweet heavens! 
 
HAMLOPHELIA  O, help him, you sweet heavens! 
 
HAMLNow see that noble and most sovereign reasoNow see that noble and most sovereign reasoOPHELIA  Could beauty, my lord, have beOPHELIA  Could beauty, my lord, have beOPHELIA  Indeed, my lord, you made mOPHELIA  Indeed, my lord, you made mOn him, on him! Look you how pale he glares. 
HiOn him, on him! Look you how pale he glares. 
HiOPHELIA  No more but so? 
 
LAERTES  Think it no OPHELIA  No more but so? 
 
LAERTES  Think it no On wholesome life usurp immediately. 
[PoursOn wholesome life usurp immediately. 
[PoursO, say! 
 
GHOST  Do not forget. This vO, say! 
 
GHOST  Do not forget. This vO, step between her and her fighting soulO, step between her and her fighting soulOPHELIA 
My lord, I have remembrances OPHELIA 
My lord, I have remembrances OPHELIA  I was the more deceived. 
 
HAMLETOPHELIA  I was the more deceived. 
 
HAMLETOPHELIA  What means your Lordship? 
 
OPHELIA  What means your Lordship? 
 
OPHELIA  You are as good as a chorus, my lorOPHELIA  You are as good as a chorus, my lorOPHELIA  You are naught, you are naught. OPHELIA  You are naught, you are naught. On Fortune's cap, we are not the veryOn Fortune's cap, we are not the veryOr pardoned being down? Then I'll look up. Or pardoned being down? Then I'll look up. Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff O, the recorders! Let me see one. [He takes O, the recorders! Let me see one. [He takes O villain, villain, smiling, damned vO villain, villain, smiling, damned vO, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown! 
The cO, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown! 
The cPLAYER KING 
Full thirty times hath PhoebPLAYER KING 
Full thirty times hath PhoebPOLONIUS  'Fore God, my lord, well spokenPOLONIUS  'Fore God, my lord, well spokenOPHELIA  Good my lord, 
How does your HonorOPHELIA  Good my lord, 
How does your HonorOffense's gilded hand may shove by justiOffense's gilded hand may shove by justiOf your precedent lord; a Of your precedent lord; a O wretched state! O boO wretched state! O boPOLONIUS  If you call me "Jephthah," my POLONIUS  If you call me "Jephthah," my POLONIUS  My lord, I will use thePOLONIUS  My lord, I will use thePOLONIUPOLONIUPOLONIUS  This is too long. 
 
HAMLETPOLONIUS  This is too long. 
 
HAMLETOPHELIA 
My honored lord, you know riOPHELIA 
My honored lord, you know riOPHELIA  My lord? 
 
HAMLET OPHELIA  My lord? 
 
HAMLET OPHELIOPHELIOPHELIA  'Tis in my memory locked,OPHELIA  'Tis in my memory locked,O'ermasO'ermasOr by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase, 
AOr by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase, 
AOver the nasty sty! 
 
QUEEN  O, speak to me noOver the nasty sty! 
 
QUEEN  O, speak to me noO'er this solidity and compound mass 
With O'er this solidity and compound mass 
With POLONPOLONOf those effects for which I did the muOf those effects for which I did the muOPHELIA  Will he tell us what this show meantOPHELIA  Will he tell us what this show meantOPHELIA  You arOPHELIA  You arPOLONIUS  My lord, I have news POLONIUS  My lord, I have news POLONIUS  Well bePOLONIUS  Well bePOLONIUS  Upon my honPOLONIUS  Upon my honPOLONIUS  What a treasure had he, POLONIUS  What a treasure had he, [Player Queen exits.] 
 
HAMLET  Madam, how like you[Player Queen exits.] 
 
HAMLET  Madam, how like you[Polonius exits.] 
 
GUILDENSTERN  My hon[Polonius exits.] 
 
GUILDENSTERN  My honPray you, be round with him. 
 
HAMLET, [within]  MoPray you, be round with him. 
 
HAMLET, [within]  MoPrithee say on. HePrithee say on. HePyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide; 
But wiPyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide; 
But wiNothing at all; yet all that is I see. 
 
HAMLETNothing at all; yet all that is I see. 
 
HAMLETNot of that dye which their investments show, 
ButNot of that dye which their investments show, 
ButNot this by no means that I bid you do: 
Let tNot this by no means that I bid you do: 
Let tOPHELIA 
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so OPHELIA 
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so OPHELIA 
He hath, my lord, of late made many tendOPHELIA 
He hath, my lord, of late made many tendOPHELIA 
I do not know, my lord, what I should thinOPHELIA 
I do not know, my lord, what I should thinOPHELIA 
I shall the effect of this good lessoOPHELIA 
I shall the effect of this good lessoOPHELIA  I shall obey, my lordOPHELIA  I shall obey, my lordOPHELIA 
He took me by the wrist OPHELIA 
He took me by the wrist OPHELIA  Do you doubt that? 
 
LAERTES 
For HamletOPHELIA  Do you doubt that? 
 
LAERTES 
For HamletOPHELIA  I think nothing, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  That's OPHELIA  I think nothing, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  That's OPHELIA  No, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  I mean, my headOPHELIA  No, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  I mean, my headOPHELIA  What is, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  NothinOPHELIA  What is, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  NothinOPHELIA  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Do you think I meantOPHELIA  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Do you think I meantObserve his inclination in yourself. 
 
REYObserve his inclination in yourself. 
 
REYOPHELIA  You are merry, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Who, IOPHELIA  You are merry, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Who, IO'er which his melancholy sits on brood, 
And I doO'er which his melancholy sits on brood, 
And I doO dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers. I hO dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers. I hOf all their conference. If she find him not, 
To Of all their conference. If she find him not, 
To Observe my uncle. IfObserve my uncle. If(Oft breaking down the pal(Oft breaking down the palO heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever 
The soO heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever 
The soOPHELIA  My lord, I do not know, 
But truly I do feaOPHELIA  My lord, I do not know, 
But truly I do feaO, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrO, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrOn such regards of safety and allowance 
As therein arOn such regards of safety and allowance 
As therein arOne word more, good lady. 
 
QUEEN  What shall I doOne word more, good lady. 
 
QUEEN  What shall I doOr "If we list to speak," or "There be an if they Or "If we list to speak," or "There be an if they Or but a sickly part of one true sense 
Could nOr but a sickly part of one true sense 
Could nOr (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase, 
ROr (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase, 
ROne scene of it comes near the circumstance 
WhiOne scene of it comes near the circumstance 
WhiOr by some habit that Or by some habit that Or, rather say, the cause of this defeOr, rather say, the cause of this defeOf his behavior. 
 
REYNALDO  My lord, I did intOf his behavior. 
 
REYNALDO  My lord, I did intOf man and country-- 
 
REYNALDO  Very good,Of man and country-- 
 
REYNALDO  Very good,Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb, 
OrOr given my heart a winking, mute and dumb, 
OrOr looked upon this love with idle sight? 
WhatOr looked upon this love with idle sight? 
WhatOr lose your heart or your chaste treasure opeOr lose your heart or your chaste treasure opeOr my dear Majesty your queen here, think, 
If I haOr my dear Majesty your queen here, think, 
If I haOr such ambiguous giving-out, to note 
That you kOr such ambiguous giving-out, to note 
That you kO, speak of that! That do I long to hear. 
 
POLONIUS 
GiO, speak of that! That do I long to hear. 
 
POLONIUS 
Gi(Or then, or then, with such (Or then, or then, with such Out of Out of PLAYER  I hope we have reformed that indPLAYER  I hope we have reformed that indPOLONIUS 
You shall do marvelous wisely, good ReynPOLONIUS 
You shall do marvelous wisely, good ReynPOLONIPOLONIPOLONIUS 
Give him this money and these noPOLONIUS 
Give him this money and these noPOLONIUS 
Away, I do beseech you both, awaPOLONIUS 
Away, I do beseech you both, awaO Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain! 
 
HO Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain! 
 
HOf his affection to me. 
 
POLONIUS 
AffecOf his affection to me. 
 
POLONIUS 
AffecO, throw away the worser part of it, 
And lO, throw away the worser part of it, 
And lPOLONIUS 
Take this from this, if this be othPOLONIUS 
Take this from this, if this be othPOLONIUS 
Madam, I swear I use no art at all. 
TPOLONIUS 
Madam, I swear I use no art at all. 
TPLAYER  I warrant your Honor. 
 
HAMLET  Be noPLAYER  I warrant your Honor. 
 
HAMLET  Be noPOLONIUS 
Good madam, stay awhile.POLONIUS 
Good madam, stay awhile.POLONIUS 
Hath there been such a time (I wouldPOLONIUS 
Hath there been such a time (I wouldPOLONIUS 
Observe his inclinatiPOLONIUS 
Observe his inclinatiPOLONIUS 
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my POLONIUS 
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my POLONIUS 
Mad for thy love? 
 
OPHELIA  My lord, IPOLONIUS 
Mad for thy love? 
 
OPHELIA  My lord, IPOLONIUS 
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege 
POLONIUS 
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege 
POLONIUS 
Give first admittance to th' aPOLONIUS 
Give first admittance to th' aPOLONIUS 
Farewell.	[Reynaldo exits.] 
 
POLONIUS 
Farewell.	[Reynaldo exits.] 
 
POLONIUS  Fare you well, my lord. 
 
HAMLEPOLONIUS  Fare you well, my lord. 
 
HAMLEPOLONIUS  Indeed, that's out POLONIUS  Indeed, that's out POLONIUS 
Come, go with me. I will go seek the KPOLONIUS 
Come, go with me. I will go seek the KPOLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord HamletPOLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord HamletQUEEN 
Nothing at all; yet all that is IQUEEN 
Nothing at all; yet all that is IPOLONIUS 
Faith, no, as you may sePOLONIUS 
Faith, no, as you may sePOLONIUS 
At "closes in the consequence"--aPOLONIUS 
At "closes in the consequence"--aPOLONIUS 
At such a time I'll loose my daughtePOLONIUS 
At such a time I'll loose my daughtePOLONIUS  Do you know me, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  POLONIUS  Do you know me, my lord? 
 
HAMLET  POLONIUSPOLONIUSPOLONIUS, [aside]  Though this be madnPOLONIUS, [aside]  Though this be madnPOLONIUS  What is the matter, my lord? 
POLONIUS  What is the matter, my lord? 
Priam's slaughter. If it live in your memory, Priam's slaughter. If it live in your memory, POLONIUS 
You know sometimes he walks four POLONIUS 
You know sometimes he walks four POLONIUS  I mean the matter that you read, mPOLONIUS  I mean the matter that you read, mQUEEN 
But look where sadly the poor wrQUEEN 
But look where sadly the poor wrQUEEN 
What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not muQUEEN 
What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not muQUEEN 
This is the very coinage of your brainQUEEN 
This is the very coinage of your brainQUEEN  How fares my lord? 
 
POLONIUS  Give oQUEEN  How fares my lord? 
 
POLONIUS  Give oQUEEN  No, nothing but ourselves. 
 
HAMLET 
QUEEN  No, nothing but ourselves. 
 
HAMLET 
QUEEN  To whom do you speak this? 
 
HAMLQUEEN  To whom do you speak this? 
 
HAMLPOLONIUS 
"And, in part, him,POLONIUS 
"And, in part, him,POLONIUS  That's veryPOLONIUS  That's veryPOLONIUS  I have, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Let hePOLONIUS  I have, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Let hePOLONIUS  NoPOLONIUS  NoREYNALDREYNALDROSENCRROSENCRREYNALDO  I will, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
REYNALDO  I will, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
REYNALDO  My lord, I did intend it. 
 
POLONIUS 
MarrREYNALDO  My lord, I did intend it. 
 
POLONIUS 
MarrROSENCRANTZ, [to Polonius]  God save you, sir. 
[PoloROSENCRANTZ, [to Polonius]  God save you, sir. 
[PoloOPHELIA  Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord. 
 OPHELIA  Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord. 
 POLONIUS  And then, sir, does he this, he does--wPOLONIUS  And then, sir, does he this, he does--wPOLONIUS  God be wi' you. Fare you well. 
 
REYNALPOLONIUS  God be wi' you. Fare you well. 
 
REYNALPOLONIUS  What do you think of me? 
 
KING 
As of a POLONIUS  What do you think of me? 
 
KING 
As of a POLONIUS  And let him ply his music. 
 
REYNALDPOLONIUS  And let him ply his music. 
 
REYNALDPOLONIUS  Marry, sir, here's my drift, 
And I beliPOLONIUS  Marry, sir, here's my drift, 
And I beliPOLONIUS  What said he? 
 
OPHELIA 
He took me POLONIUS  What said he? 
 
OPHELIA 
He took me POLONIUS  Wherefore should you do this? 
 
REYNALDO  AyPOLONIUS  Wherefore should you do this? 
 
REYNALDO  AyPOLONIUS  Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, 
QuarreliPOLONIUS  Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, 
QuarreliPOLONIUS  This business is well ended. 
My liege,POLONIUS  This business is well ended. 
My liege,POLONIUS  With what, i' th' name of God? 
 
OPHEPOLONIUS  With what, i' th' name of God? 
 
OPHEPOLONIUS, [behind the arras]  What ho! Help! 
POLONIUS, [behind the arras]  What ho! Help! 
Pale as his shirt, his knePale as his shirt, his knePinch wanton on your cheek, cPinch wanton on your cheek, cPOLONIUS, [behind the arras] 
O, I am slain! 
 
QPOLONIUS, [behind the arras] 
O, I am slain! 
 
QQUEEN 
I doubt it is no other but the main-- 
HiQUEEN 
I doubt it is no other but the main-- 
HiQUEEN 
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offendQUEEN 
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offendQUEEN 
Nay, then I'll set those to you that can QUEEN 
Nay, then I'll set those to you that can QUEEN 
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain! QUEEN 
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain! QUEEN 
What have I done, that thou dar'st waQUEEN 
What have I done, that thou dar'st wa[Polonius exits.] 
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he[Polonius exits.] 
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, hePut your dread pleasures more into command 
Than Put your dread pleasures more into command 
Than QUEEN 
Have you forgot me? 
 
HAMLET  No, by theQUEEN 
Have you forgot me? 
 
HAMLET  No, by theQUEEN  Alas, he's mad. 
 
HAMLET 
Do you not comQUEEN  Alas, he's mad. 
 
HAMLET 
Do you not comQUEEN  The lady doth protest too much, methinks.QUEEN  The lady doth protest too much, methinks.[Pointing to Polonius.] 
I do repent; but heaven [Pointing to Polonius.] 
I do repent; but heaven QUEEN 
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle RosencrantQUEEN 
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle RosencrantQUEEN 
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this! 
 
HAMQUEEN 
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this! 
 
HAMProvincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a 
feProvincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a 
feQUEEN 
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongueQUEEN 
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongueQUEEN 
Why, how now, Hamlet? 
 
HAMLET  What's QUEEN 
Why, how now, Hamlet? 
 
HAMLET  What's QUEEN  It may be, very like. 
 
POLONIUS 
Hath QUEEN  It may be, very like. 
 
POLONIUS 
Hath REYNALDO  But, my good lord-- 
 
POLONIUS  WhREYNALDO  But, my good lord-- 
 
POLONIUS  WhREYNALDO  Very good, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS REYNALDO  Very good, my lord. 
 
POLONIUS ROSENCRANTZ  None, my lord, but that the woROSENCRANTZ  None, my lord, but that the woQUEEN 
As kill a king? 
 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it wasQUEEN 
As kill a king? 
 
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it wasQUEEN  Came tQUEEN  Came tQUEEN  Alas, how is 't with you, 
That you do bend your QUEEN  Alas, how is 't with you, 
That you do bend your ROSENCRANTZ/GUILDENSTERN  We'll wait upon you.ROSENCRANTZ/GUILDENSTERN  We'll wait upon you.REYNALDO  Ay, my lord, I would know that. 
 
POREYNALDO  Ay, my lord, I would know that. 
 
POROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lord, no other occasiROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lord, no other occasiROSENCRANTZ  Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy ROSENCRANTZ  Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy ROSENCRANTZ  We think not so, my lord. 
 
HAMLROSENCRANTZ  We think not so, my lord. 
 
HAMLROSENCRANTZ  Why, then, your ambition makes it one.ROSENCRANTZ  Why, then, your ambition makes it one.Repugnant to command. Unequal matched, 
PyrrRepugnant to command. Unequal matched, 
PyrrRun barefoot upRun barefoot upShall we to th' court? For, by my fay, I cannot Shall we to th' court? For, by my fay, I cannot QUEEN  Ay, amen! 
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exQUEEN  Ay, amen! 
[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exQUEENQUEENQUEEN  O Hamlet, speak no more! 
Thou turn'st myQUEEN  O Hamlet, speak no more! 
Thou turn'st myQUEEN  No more! 
 
HAMLET  A king of shreds and patchQUEEN  No more! 
 
HAMLET  A king of shreds and patchQUEEN  O, speak to me no more! 
TQUEEN  O, speak to me no more! 
TQUEEN  What shall I do? 
 
HAMLET 
NotQUEEN  What shall I do? 
 
HAMLET 
NotREYNALDO  As gaming, my lREYNALDO  As gaming, my lREYNALDO 
My lorREYNALDO 
My lorREYNALDO  Good my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
ObservREYNALDO  Good my lord. 
 
POLONIUS 
ObservROSENCROSENCROSENCRANTZ  She desires to speak wiROSENCRANTZ  She desires to speak wiROSENCRANTZ  To what end, my lord? 
 ROSENCRANTZ  To what end, my lord? 
 RebelliRebelliSave me and hoverSave me and hoverShall you my son. You have me, have Shall you my son. You have me, have So by my former lecture and advice 
ShallSo by my former lecture and advice 
ShallReceives rebuke from Norway, and, in fineReceives rebuke from Norway, and, in fineShe is a strumpet. What news? 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  NShe is a strumpet. What news? 
 
ROSENCRANTZ  NSo levied So levied ROSENCRANTZ  Neither, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  TROSENCRANTZ  Neither, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  TROSENCRANTZ  Even those you were wont to ROSENCRANTZ  Even those you were wont to ROSENCRANTZ  Both your Majesties 
Might, by the ROSENCRANTZ  Both your Majesties 
Might, by the ROSENCRANTZ  Faith, there has been much to-doROSENCRANTZ  Faith, there has been much to-doROSENCRANTZ  Haply he is the second time cROSENCRANTZ  Haply he is the second time cROSENCRANTZ  I think their inhibition comes by tROSENCRANTZ  I think their inhibition comes by tROSENCRANTZ  Nay, their endeavor keeps in theROSENCRANTZ  Nay, their endeavor keeps in theROSENCRANTZ  No, indeed are they not. 
 ROSENCRANTZ  No, indeed are they not. 
 ROSENCRANTZ  Then thus she says: your behavior hathROSENCRANTZ  Then thus she says: your behavior hathREYNALDO  Well, my lord. 
 
POLONIUSREYNALDO  Well, my lord. 
 
POLONIUSROSENCRANTROSENCRANTROSENCRANTZ  To think, my lord, if you delighROSENCRANTZ  To think, my lord, if you delighRankly abused. But know, thou noble youth, 
TheRankly abused. But know, thou noble youth, 
TheROSENCRANTZ  Ay, that they do, my lord--HerculesROSENCRANTZ  Ay, that they do, my lord--Hercules'Sblood, there is something in this more than'Sblood, there is something in this more than[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit.] 
Now I [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit.] 
Now I So, lust, though to a radiant angel linkSo, lust, though to a radiant angel linkSpeak to her, Hamlet. 
 
HAMLET  How is it Speak to her, Hamlet. 
 
HAMLET  How is it Rebellious hell, 
If thou canst mutine in a Rebellious hell, 
If thou canst mutine in a Rest, rest, perturbed spirit.--So, gentlemRest, rest, perturbed spirit.--So, gentlem[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit 
wi[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit 
wiRepent what's past, avoid what is to coRepent what's past, avoid what is to coSee what a grace was seated on this bSee what a grace was seated on this bShow me the steep and thorny way to heaShow me the steep and thorny way to heaSince frost itself as actively Since frost itself as actively So grace and mercy at your most need help So grace and mercy at your most need help So as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood 
ASo as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood 
ASo, proceed you. 
 
POLONIUS  'Fore God, mySo, proceed you. 
 
POLONIUS  'Fore God, mySuch as it is), and for mySuch as it is), and for mySo to seduce!--won to hSo to seduce!--won to hSprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look? 
 
HSprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look? 
 
HStart up and stand an end. O gentle son, 
UStart up and stand an end. O gentle son, 
UStewed in corruptioStewed in corruptioStriking too short at Greeks. His antique sword, 
ReStriking too short at Greeks. His antique sword, 
ReStand dumb and sStand dumb and sSo, uncle, there you are. Now to my word. 
It is "adSo, uncle, there you are. Now to my word. 
It is "adSwear by my sword. 
 
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear. 
 
HAMLESwear by my sword. 
 
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear. 
 
HAMLETaint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive Take thisTake thisTake you, as 'twere, some distant Take you, as 'twere, some distant POLONIUS 
Marry, I will teach you. Think yourself a babPOLONIUS 
Marry, I will teach you. Think yourself a babPOLONIUS 
He will come straight. Look you layPOLONIUS 
He will come straight. Look you layPOLONIUS 
POLONIUS 
POLONIUS 
The time invests you. Go, your servants tePOLONIUS 
The time invests you. Go, your servants tePOLONIUS 
I hear hiPOLONIUS 
I hear hiPOLONIUS 
It shall do well. But yet do I believe 
ThePOLONIUS 
It shall do well. But yet do I believe 
ThePOLONIUS  I did enact Julius Caesar. I POLONIUS  I did enact Julius Caesar. I POLONIUS  Marry, well bethought. 
'Tis told me he POLONIUS  Marry, well bethought. 
'Tis told me he POLONIUS  MPOLONIUS  MPOLONIUS  Very like a whalePOLONIUS  Very like a whalePerchance 'twill walk again. 
 
HORATIO  I warrant it wiPerchance 'twill walk again. 
 
HORATIO  I warrant it wi[Players exit.] 
 
OPHELIA[Players exit.] 
 
OPHELIAPolonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and otherPolonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and otherPrompted to my revenge by heaven aPrompted to my revenge by heaven a[Polonius exits.] 
O, my offense is rank, it [Polonius exits.] 
O, my offense is rank, it QUEEN  DiQUEEN  DiPOLONIUS 
Ay, "fashion" you may call it. Go toPOLONIUS 
Ay, "fashion" you may call it. Go toPOLONIUS  By th' Mass, and 'tis like a camPOLONIUS  By th' Mass, and 'tis like a camPROLOGUE 
	For us and for our tragedy, 
	Here stPROLOGUE 
	For us and for our tragedy, 
	Here stQUEEN  Did you assay him to any pastime? 
 
ROSENCQUEEN  Did you assay him to any pastime? 
 
ROSENCPOLONIUS  It is backed like a weasel. POLONIUS  It is backed like a weasel. [Players exit.] 
 
[E[Players exit.] 
 
[E[Queen exits.] 
 
POLONIUS 
Ophelia, w[Queen exits.] 
 
POLONIUS 
Ophelia, wQUEEN  I shall obey yQUEEN  I shall obey yROSENCRANTZ 
Niggard of question, but of our ROSENCRANTZ 
Niggard of question, but of our ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord.	[They exROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord.	[They exROSENCRANTZ 
He does confess he feels himself distrROSENCRANTZ 
He does confess he feels himself distrRemorRemorRevisits thus the glimpsesRevisits thus the glimpsesRunning it thus)Running it thus)ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord. They sROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord. They sRevenge his fouRevenge his fouScene 3 
======= 
[EnScene 3 
======= 
[EnScene 3 
======= 
[Enter King, Rosencrantz, and GScene 3 
======= 
[Enter King, Rosencrantz, and GScene 4 
======= 
[Enter Queen and Polonius.] 
 Scene 4 
======= 
[Enter Queen and Polonius.] 
 Scene 5 
======= 
[Enter Ghost and Hamlet.] 
 
 
Scene 5 
======= 
[Enter Ghost and Hamlet.] 
 
 
Set yoSet yoSince my dear soul was mistress of her choiceSince my dear soul was mistress of her choiceScene 2 
======= 
[Enter Hamlet and three of the PlayScene 2 
======= 
[Enter Hamlet and three of the PlayShall in the general censure take corruption 
FromShall in the general censure take corruption 
FromSince nature makes them partial, should o'erheaSince nature makes them partial, should o'erheaSince nature cannot choose his origin), 
By the o'eSince nature cannot choose his origin), 
By the o'eThan are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come. 
HereThan are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come. 
HereThan your particular demands will touch it. 
TakeThan your particular demands will touch it. 
TakeSprung from neglected love.--How now, Ophelia? 
YoSprung from neglected love.--How now, Ophelia? 
YoThat I have positively That I have positively That I have uttered. Bring me to the testThat I have uttered. Bring me to the testThat ever I was born to set it right! 
Nay, come, lThat ever I was born to set it right! 
Nay, come, lPOLONIUS 
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet. POLONIUS 
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear. 
 
HAMLETSo art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear. 
 
HAMLETSo far from cheer and from your former state, 
ThatSo far from cheer and from your former state, 
ThatSo please you, something touching the Lord 
HamleSo please you, something touching the Lord 
HamleSo think thou wilt no second husband wed, 
But die thy thouSo think thou wilt no second husband wed, 
But die thy thou[Sound a flourish.] 
 
HAMLET  They are coming to the p[Sound a flourish.] 
 
HAMLET  They are coming to the pStill am I called. Unhand me, gentlemen. 
By heaven, I'll Still am I called. Unhand me, gentlemen. 
By heaven, I'll Such love must needs be treason in my breast. 
In seconSuch love must needs be treason in my breast. 
In seconSoil our addition. And, indeed, it takes 
From our aSoil our addition. And, indeed, it takes 
From our aSport and repose lock from me day and night, 
To deSport and repose lock from me day and night, 
To deTake each man's censure, but reserve thyTake each man's censure, but reserve thySo oft it chancSo oft it chancT' assume a pleasing shape; yea, aT' assume a pleasing shape; yea, aSomething is rotten in the state of Denmark. 
 
HSomething is rotten in the state of Denmark. 
 
HSo many jSo many jTake these again, for to the noble mind 
Rich gifts wTake these again, for to the noble mind 
Rich gifts wTell Tell Than is my deed tThan is my deed tThan to entreaty. 
 
GUILDENSTERN  But we both obThan to entreaty. 
 
GUILDENSTERN  But we both obThat I distrust you. Yet, though I disThat I distrust you. Yet, though I disThan fly to others that we know not of? 
Thus Than fly to others that we know not of? 
Thus That I essentially am not in madness, 
But mad in That I essentially am not in madness, 
But mad in That I have? He would drown the stage with tears 
AnThat I have? He would drown the stage with tears 
AnThat I have loThat I have loThat I must be their scourge and minister. 
I will besThat I must be their scourge and minister. 
I will besThat That That canThat canThat it be proof and bulwarkThat it be proof and bulwarkThat flesh is heir to--'tis a coThat flesh is heir to--'tis a coThat lend a tyrannous and a damned light 
TThat lend a tyrannous and a damned light 
TThat makes calamity of so long life. 
For who wouThat makes calamity of so long life. 
For who wouThat live and feed upon your That live and feed upon your That roars so loud and tThat roars so loud and tThat's an ill phrase, a vile phrasThat's an ill phrase, a vile phrasThat swift That swift The bold winds speechless, and the orb below 
AThe bold winds speechless, and the orb below 
AThe fair Ophelia.--Nymph, in thy orisons 
Be The fair Ophelia.--Nymph, in thy orisons 
Be The glowworm shows the matin to be near 
AThe glowworm shows the matin to be near 
AThat it went hand in hand even with the vow 
I That it went hand in hand even with the vow 
I That from her working all his visage wanned, That from her working all his visage wanned, That for some vicious mole of nature That for some vicious mole of nature That he shouThat he shouThat he's mad, 'tis true; 'tis true 'That he's mad, 'tis true; 'tis true 'That is not passion's slave, and I will weThat is not passion's slave, and I will weThat it might please you to give quiet That it might please you to give quiet That looks so many fathoms to the sea 
And heThat looks so many fathoms to the sea 
And heThat monster, custom, who all sense doth eatThat monster, custom, who all sense doth eatThat, lapsed in time and passion, lets goThat, lapsed in time and passion, lets goThat not your trespass but my madness speakThat not your trespass but my madness speakThat from a shelf the precious diadem stThat from a shelf the precious diadem stThat roots itself in ease on LetheThat roots itself in ease on LetheThat show of such an exercise may color 
Your That show of such an exercise may color 
Your That's not my meaning. But breathe his fThat's not my meaning. But breathe his fThat so his sickness, age, and impotence 
Was falsThat so his sickness, age, and impotence 
Was falsThat spirit upon whose weal depends and rests 
The livThat spirit upon whose weal depends and rests 
The livThat he, asThat he, asThat she should lock herself from his resort, 
AThat she should lock herself from his resort, 
AThat they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger That's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambThat's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambThat they do know my son, come you moreThat they do know my son, come you moreThat they may seem the tThat they may seem the tThat thus hath cozened you at hoodmThat thus hath cozened you at hoodmThat thus he suffers for. 
 
QUEEN  I shall oThat thus he suffers for. 
 
QUEEN  I shall oThat to the use of actions fair and That to the use of actions fair and That unmatched form and stature of blown youtThat unmatched form and stature of blown youtThe better to beguile. TThe better to beguile. TThat your goThat your goT' have seen what I have seen, see whatT' have seen what I have seen, see whatThe death I gave him. So, again, good night. 
The death I gave him. So, again, good night. 
The devil himself. 
 
KING, [aside] The devil himself. 
 
KING, [aside] That no revenue hast but thy good spiThat no revenue hast but thy good spiThat you haThat you haThat you know aught of me--this do swear, That you know aught of me--this do swear, The King doth wake tonight and takes hThe King doth wake tonight and takes hThe air bites shrewdly; it is very The air bites shrewdly; it is very The apparition comes. I knew your faThe apparition comes. I knew your faThe chariest maid is prodigal enough 
If she unThe chariest maid is prodigal enough 
If she unThe flash and outbreak of a fiery mindThe flash and outbreak of a fiery mindThe glass of fashion and the mold The glass of fashion and the mold The harlot's cheek beautied with plast'ringThe harlot's cheek beautied with plast'ringThe courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eyThe courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eyThe head and source of all your son's distThe head and source of all your son's distThe form of plausive manners--that The form of plausive manners--that The heartache and the thousand natural shockThe heartache and the thousand natural shockThe insolence of office, and the spurns 
That The insolence of office, and the spurns 
That The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble The instances that second marriage move 
Are baThe instances that second marriage move 
Are ba	   The hart ungalled play. 
	For some must watch, w	   The hart ungalled play. 
	For some must watch, wThe instant burst of clamor that she madThe instant burst of clamor that she madROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord, what is your cause oROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord, what is your cause oThat guilty creatures sitting at a play 
Have, bThat guilty creatures sitting at a play 
Have, bThat our devices still are overthrown; 
Our tThat our devices still are overthrown; 
Our tThat even our loves should with our forThat even our loves should with our forThat has no relish of salvation in 't-- 
TheThat has no relish of salvation in 't-- 
TheThe inward service of the mind and soul The inward service of the mind and soul Their own enactures with themseTheir own enactures with themseThe leprous distilment, whose effeThe leprous distilment, whose effeThe lives of many. The cess of majestyThe lives of many. The cess of majestyThence to a lightness, and, by this deThence to a lightness, and, by this deThen goes he to the length of all his arm, 
And, wThen goes he to the length of all his arm, 
And, wThen trip him, that his heels may kick atThen trip him, that his heels may kick atThe great man down, you mark his favorite flies; The great man down, you mark his favorite flies; Therefore, sTherefore, sThere was he gaming, there o'ertook in 's roThere was he gaming, there o'ertook in 's roThe poor, advanced, makes friends of enemiesThe poor, advanced, makes friends of enemiesThe serpent that did sting thy father'The serpent that did sting thy father'There falling out at tennis"; or perchanThere falling out at tennis"; or perchanThese are but wild and whirling words, myThese are but wild and whirling words, myThere is a play tonight before the King. 
OThere is a play tonight before the King. 
OThe slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, [The trumpets sounds. Dumb show f[The trumpets sounds. Dumb show fThe soul of Nero enter this firm boThe soul of Nero enter this firm boThe triumphThe triumphThe very cause of Hamlet's lunacy. 
 
KING 
O, The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy. 
 
KING 
O, The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I, 
AThe very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I, 
AThe very place puts toys of desperatiThe very place puts toys of desperatiThe will of my most seeming-virtuouThe will of my most seeming-virtuouThey clepe us drunkards and with swinish pThey clepe us drunkards and with swinish p[They exit.] 
 
Scene[They exit.] 
 
Scene[They exit.] 
 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Ent[They exit.] 
 
Scene 4 
======= 
[EntThis bad begins, and worse remains behind. 
One This bad begins, and worse remains behind. 
One This is the very ecstasy of love, 
WThis is the very ecstasy of love, 
WThis physic but prolongs thy sickly days. 
[HaThis physic but prolongs thy sickly days. 
[HaThis world is This world is Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness, 
Thence tThence to a watch, thence into a weakness, 
Thence tThe pangs of despisedThe pangs of despisedThere is no shuffling; there theThere is no shuffling; there theThere needs no ghost, my lord, come from the graThere needs no ghost, my lord, come from the graThere's never a villain dwelling in all Denmark 
BThere's never a villain dwelling in all Denmark 
BThe rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms, 
Black asThe rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms, 
Black asThe single and peculiar life is bound 
With all tThe single and peculiar life is bound 
With all tThe terms of our estate may not endure 
Hazard sThe terms of our estate may not endure 
Hazard sThe thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine, 
And aThe thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine, 
And aThe rugged Pyrrhus, likeThe rugged Pyrrhus, likeThe very soul, anThe very soul, an	The which he loved passing well. 
 
POLO	The which he loved passing well. 
 
POLOThe time invests you. Go, your servants tend. The time invests you. Go, your servants tend. The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured 
He closThe youth you breathe of guilty, be assured 
He closThine evermore, most dear lady, whilThine evermore, most dear lady, whilThis must not be." And then I prescripts gaveThis must not be." And then I prescripts gaveThou canst not then be false to any man. 
Farewell. MThou canst not then be false to any man. 
Farewell. MThis This This is one Lucianus, nephew to This is one Lucianus, nephew to Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger. 
[Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger. 
[Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contTh' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contThose friends thou hast, and their adoption triThose friends thou hast, and their adoption triThough lThough lThough aThough aThou still hast been the father of good news. Thou still hast been the father of good news. The origiThe origiThe safety and the health of this whole statThe safety and the health of this whole statThese hands are not more like. 
 
HAMLET  But wThese hands are not more like. 
 
HAMLET  But wThese words like daggers enter in my ears. 
No morThese words like daggers enter in my ears. 
No morThe time is out of joint. O cursed The time is out of joint. O cursed Th' expectancy and rose of the fair Th' expectancy and rose of the fair [They exit.] 
 
 
ACT 2 
===== [They exit.] 
 
 
ACT 2 
===== The speech of vantage. Fare you well, my liege. 
I'll caThe speech of vantage. Fare you well, my liege. 
I'll caTherefore no more but to the matter. My mother, 
yTherefore no more but to the matter. My mother, 
yTh' important acting of your dread command? 
O,Th' important acting of your dread command? 
O,This is the very coinage of your brain. 
This is the very coinage of your brain. 
Though inclinatioThough inclinatioThis bodiless creation eThis bodiless creation eTh' observed of all observers, quite, qTh' observed of all observers, quite, qThus set it down: he shalThus set it down: he shalThy natural magic and dire prThy natural magic and dire prThou turn'st my eyes into my veThou turn'st my eyes into my ve'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave m'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave m'Tis heavy with him. And am I then'Tis heavy with him. And am I then'Tis t'Tis tTill the foul crimes done in my daysTill the foul crimes done in my days'Tis told me he hath very o'Tis told me he hath very oTo a nunnery, go.	[He exits.] 
 
OPHELIA 
O,To a nunnery, go.	[He exits.] 
 
OPHELIA 
O,	   Thus runs the world away.	   Thus runs the world away.Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium, 
SeeTh' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium, 
SeeThus conscience does make cowards of us all, 
AThus conscience does make cowards of us all, 
AThus it remains, and the remainder thus. 
PeThus it remains, and the remainder thus. 
PeThus was I, sleeping, by a brotThus was I, sleeping, by a brot'Tis given out that, s'Tis given out that, s'Tis now the very witch'Tis now the very witch('Tis too much proved), that with ('Tis too much proved), that with To be a preparation 'gainst tTo be a preparation 'gainst tThou wretched, rash, intruding fool, Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, [To Queen.] Leave wringi[To Queen.] Leave wringiTo be forestalled ere we come tTo be forestalled ere we come tTo desperation turn my trust and hope, 
An anchor's chTo desperation turn my trust and hope, 
An anchor's chTo ears of flesh and blood. List,To ears of flesh and blood. List,To give in evidence. What thTo give in evidence. What thTo England send him, or confine him wheTo England send him, or confine him wheTo grunt and sweat under a weary lTo grunt and sweat under a weary lTo hear him so inclined. 
Good gentlemen, To hear him so inclined. 
Good gentlemen, To hear ofTo hear ofTo heaven. 
Why, this is hire and salTo heaven. 
Why, this is hire and salTo cast thee up again. What may this mean To cast thee up again. What may this mean To flaming youth To flaming youth To hear the process. I'll warrant sheTo hear the process. I'll warrant sheTo hear and see the matter. 
 
KING 
With all mTo hear and see the matter. 
 
KING 
With all mTo keep iTo keep iTo keep those many many bodieTo keep those many many bodieTo make oppression bitter, orTo make oppression bitter, orTo pay ourselves what to oursTo pay ourselves what to oursTo punish me with this and this with me, 
ThTo punish me with this and this with me, 
ThTo prick andTo prick andTo lay our service freelTo lay our service freelTo show his grief. Let her be round witTo show his grief. Let her be round witAnd breath of life, I have no life to breathe 
WhaAnd breath of life, I have no life to breathe 
WhaAnd call it accident. 
 
LAERTES  My lord, I will be ruAnd call it accident. 
 
LAERTES  My lord, I will be ruAnd carriage of the article designed, 
His fell And carriage of the article designed, 
His fell And do And do And even the like precurse of feared events, 
As haAnd even the like precurse of feared events, 
As haAnd ever three parts coward), I do not knoAnd ever three parts coward), I do not knoAnd forAnd forAnd for my means, I'll husband theAnd for my means, I'll husband theAnd for that purpose I'll anoint my sword. 
I bougAnd for that purpose I'll anoint my sword. 
I bougAnd from her fair and unpolluted flesh 
MaAnd from her fair and unpolluted flesh 
MaAnd gem of all the natioAnd gem of all the natioAnd let him know so. 
 
CAPTAIN  I will do 't, my lorAnd let him know so. 
 
CAPTAIN  I will do 't, my lorAnd let us hear Barnardo speak of this. 
 
BARNARDO  And let us hear Barnardo speak of this. 
 
BARNARDO  And let us once again assail your ears, 
ThAnd let us once again assail your ears, 
ThAnd, but that great command o'ersways the ordeAnd, but that great command o'ersways the ordeAnd call the noblest to the audiAnd call the noblest to the audiAnd hath abatements anAnd hath abatements anAnd let them know both whatAnd let them know both whatAnd from his mother's closet hath he dragged And from his mother's closet hath he dragged And let me speak to th' yet unknowing world 
How tAnd let me speak to th' yet unknowing world 
How tAnd let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark. And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark. And many suchlike ases of great charge, 
That, And many suchlike ases of great charge, 
That, And if thAnd if thAnd nothing is at a like goodness still; 
For goodnAnd nothing is at a like goodness still; 
For goodnAnd of all Christians' souls, I pray God.And of all Christians' souls, I pray God.And marshal me to knavery. Let it work, 
For 'tis the And marshal me to knavery. Let it work, 
For 'tis the And mermaid-like awhile they bore her up, 
And mermaid-like awhile they bore her up, 
And prologue to the omen comAnd prologue to the omen comAnd in a postscript here, he says "alone." 
Can yAnd in a postscript here, he says "alone." 
Can y	And in his grave rained 	And in his grave rained And in this brainish apprehension kills 
The unseen gAnd in this brainish apprehension kills 
The unseen gAnd let the kettle to the trumpet sAnd let the kettle to the trumpet sAnd in this harsh world draw thy breath in And in this harsh world draw thy breath in And set a double varnish on the fame 
The Frenchman And set a double varnish on the fame 
The Frenchman And hurt my brother. 
 
LAERTES  I am satisfied And hurt my brother. 
 
LAERTES  I am satisfied And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-- 
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-- 
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared 
hiAnd that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared 
hiAnd then this "should" is like aAnd then this "should" is like aAnd therefore I forbid my tears. But yet 
It isAnd therefore I forbid my tears. But yet 
It isAnd they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.And thinAnd thinAnd thus awhile the fit will work on him. 
Anon, And thus awhile the fit will work on him. 
Anon, And thy best graces spend iAnd thy best graces spend iAnd wager on your heads. He, being And wager on your heads. He, being 	   And we cast away moan. 
	God 'a mercy on 	   And we cast away moan. 
	God 'a mercy on [A noise within.] 
 
QUEEN  Alack, what noise is[A noise within.] 
 
QUEEN  Alack, what noise isAs level as the cannon to his blank 
Transports hAs level as the cannon to his blank 
Transports hAnd hit the woundless air. O, come away! 
MyAnd hit the woundless air. O, come away! 
MyAnd what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?-- 
MarceAnd what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?-- 
MarceAnd we beseech you, benAnd we beseech you, benAnd, where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigheAnd, where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigheAnd when he's nAnd when he's n	And will he not come again? 
	 	And will he not come again? 
	 	And will he not co	And will he not coAnd with no less nobility of love 
And with no less nobility of love 
And where th' offense is,And where th' offense is,And with such maimed rites? This doth betokenAnd with such maimed rites? This doth betoken	   An thou hadst not come to my bed." 
 
KING  How l	   An thou hadst not come to my bed." 
 
KING  How lAs checking at his voyage, and that he means 
NoAs checking at his voyage, and that he means 
NoAn hour of quiet thereby shall we see. 
Till thAn hour of quiet thereby shall we see. 
Till thAnd you must needs have heard, how I And you must needs have heard, how I An earnest conjuration from the King, 
As EnglaAn earnest conjuration from the King, 
As Engla[A noise within.] 
 
QUEEN 
How cheerfully [A noise within.] 
 
QUEEN 
How cheerfully Anon, as patient as the female dove 
When that Anon, as patient as the female dove 
When that Are here arrived, give order that these bodAre here arrived, give order that these bodArmed at point exactly, cap-a-pie, 
Appears Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pie, 
Appears As any the most vulgar thing to sense, 
Why shoAs any the most vulgar thing to sense, 
Why shoAs had he been encorpsed and demi-natured 
WiAs had he been encorpsed and demi-natured 
WiAn understanding simple and unschooled. 
For whatAn understanding simple and unschooled. 
For whatAs did that one, and that, in my regard, 
Of the unwAs did that one, and that, in my regard, 
Of the unwAs if increase of appetite had grown 
By what it fed As if increase of appetite had grown 
By what it fed As love between them like the palm might flourisAs love between them like the palm might flourisAs needful in our loves, fitting As needful in our loves, fitting As we have warranAs we have warranAs stars with trainAs stars with trainA touch, a touch. I do confess 't. 
 
KING 
Our soA touch, a touch. I do confess 't. 
 
KING 
Our so  [A noise wit  [A noise wit(As how should it be so? how otherwise?), 
Will (As how should it be so? how otherwise?), 
Will (As make your bou(As make your bouAs day does to your eye. 
 
  [A noise within:] "LetAs day does to your eye. 
 
  [A noise within:] "LetAs there are tongues, are hands, are As there are tongues, are hands, are [A table prepared. Enter Trumpets, Dr[A table prepared. Enter Trumpets, Dr	At his head a grass-gre	At his head a grass-greA truant disposition, good mA truant disposition, good mA very ribbon in the cap of youth-- 
Yet needfulA very ribbon in the cap of youth-- 
Yet needfulAs harbingers preceding still the fates 
And prologuAs harbingers preceding still the fates 
And prologuAy, madam, it iAy, madam, it iBARNARDO 
'Tis now strucBARNARDO 
'Tis now strucBARNARDO  Have you had quiet guard? 
 
FRANCIBARNARDO  Have you had quiet guard? 
 
FRANCIBARNARDOBARNARDOBARNARDO  He. 
 
FRANCBARNARDO  He. 
 
FRANCBARNARDO  Long live the King! 
 
FRANCISCBARNARDO  Long live the King! 
 
FRANCISCBARNARDO  I have seen nothing. 
 
MARCELLUS 
HBARNARDO  I have seen nothing. 
 
MARCELLUS 
HBARBARAnd let all sleep, while to my shame I see 
ThAnd let all sleep, while to my shame I see 
ThAnd pAnd pAnd terms compulsatory, those foresaidAnd terms compulsatory, those foresaidAnd the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit agaAnd the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit agaAnd then it started like a guilty thing 
UAnd then it started like a guilty thing 
UAnd our vain blows malicious mockery. 
And our vain blows malicious mockery. 
And so have I a noble father loAnd so have I a noble father loAnd that I see, in passages of proof, 
TimAnd that I see, in passages of proof, 
TimAnd you must put me in your heart for friAnd you must put me in your heart for friAnd spur my dull revenge. What is a mAnd spur my dull revenge. What is a m	A pickax and a spade, a spade, 
	For and a	A pickax and a spade, a spade, 
	For and aA royal knaA royal knaAs by yAs by y[Aside.[Aside.A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee. 
 
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee. 
 
AwayAwayBARNARDO 
Looks he not like the King? MarkBARNARDO 
Looks he not like the King? MarkBARNARDO 
In the same figure like the King that'BARNARDO 
In the same figure like the King that'  BARNARDO 
  MARCELLUS 
FORTINBRAS, Princ  BARNARDO 
  MARCELLUS 
FORTINBRAS, PrincAwake the god of day, and at his warninAwake the god of day, and at his warninBARNARDO  Last night of all, 
When yonBARNARDO  Last night of all, 
When yonBarbary horses against six French swoBarbary horses against six French swoBear Hamlet like Bear Hamlet like BARNARDO 
It was about to speak when theBARNARDO 
It was about to speak when theBARNARDO 
It would be spoke to. 
 BARNARDO 
It would be spoke to. 
 At least the whisper goes so: our lAt least the whisper goes so: our lBARNARDO  See, it stalks away. 
 
HORBARNARDO  See, it stalks away. 
 
HORBARNARDO  WBARNARDO  WBecomes the field but here shows muchBecomes the field but here shows muchBut not where I have aimed them. 
 
LAERTESBut not where I have aimed them. 
 
LAERTESBe as ourself in Denmark.--Madam, come. 
TBe as ourself in Denmark.--Madam, come. 
TBut I will delve one yard below their mines 
But I will delve one yard below their mines 
But that I know love is begun by time But that I know love is begun by time Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no morBe but to sleep and feed? A beast, no morBestial oblivion or some craven scruple 
Of thBestial oblivion or some craven scruple 
Of thBut even his mother shall uncharge the prBut even his mother shall uncharge the prBut not by him. 
 
KING  Let him demand his filBut not by him. 
 
KING  Let him demand his filBut the great cannon to the clouds shall tell, 
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell, 
(A thought which, quartered, hath but on(A thought which, quartered, hath but onBut to recover of us, by strong hand 
AnBut to recover of us, by strong hand 
AnBut greatly to find quarrel in a straw 
WhenBut greatly to find quarrel in a straw 
WhenBarnBarnBe buried quick with her, and so will I. 
ABe buried quick with her, and so will I. 
ABehind the arras hearing something stir,Behind the arras hearing something stir,Been thus encountered: a figureBeen thus encountered: a figureBreak not your sleeps for thatBreak not your sleeps for thatBARNARDO  'Tis here. 
 
HORATIO  'TiBARNARDO  'Tis here. 
 
HORATIO  'TiBut break, my heaBut break, my heaBe thou Be thou But pardon 't as you are a gentleman. This But pardon 't as you are a gentleman. This But soft, behold! Lo, where it comeBut soft, behold! Lo, where it comeBut that this folly drowns it.	[He exits.] 
 
KIBut that this folly drowns it.	[He exits.] 
 
KIBut wBut wBut wilt thou hear now how I did proceed? But wilt thou hear now how I did proceed? But yet to me they're strong. The Queen his mothBut yet to me they're strong. The Queen his mothBeing thus benetted round with villainies, 
Or IBeing thus benetted round with villainies, 
Or IBe you content to lend your patience to us, 
AnBe you content to lend your patience to us, 
AnBurn out the sense and virtue of minBurn out the sense and virtue of minBut I do prophesy th' eleBut I do prophesy th' eleBut I have that within whicBut I have that within whicBut in battalionsBut in battalionsBut let this same be presently performed 
EBut let this same be presently performed 
EBut, like the owner of a foul disease, 
But, like the owner of a foul disease, 
Both countenance and excuse.--Ho, GBoth countenance and excuse.--Ho, GBreak we our watch up, and by my adviceBreak we our watch up, and by my advice	But age with his stealing steps 
	Hath cla	But age with his stealing steps 
	Hath claBut in the gross and scope of mine opinioBut in the gross and scope of mine opinioBut look, the morn in russet mantle clad 
But look, the morn in russet mantle clad 
Between the pass and fell incensed points Between the pass and fell incensed points But now, my cousin Hamlet and my son-- 
 
HAMLBut now, my cousin Hamlet and my son-- 
 
HAMLBut, since he is better, we have therefore odBut, since he is better, we have therefore odBut soft, but soft awhile! Here comes the KingBut soft, but soft awhile! Here comes the KingBut two months dead--nay, not so much,But two months dead--nay, not so much,But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put But we will ship him hence; and this vBut we will ship him hence; and this vBy desperate appliance are relieved 
Or noBy desperate appliance are relieved 
Or noBut what is your affair in Elsinore? 
We'll tBut what is your affair in Elsinore? 
We'll t	   By Cock, they are to blame. 
	Quoth she "Be	   By Cock, they are to blame. 
	Quoth she "BeBy heaven, thy madness shall be paid with By heaven, thy madness shall be paid with 	By his cockle hat and staff 
	   And his sa	By his cockle hat and staff 
	   And his saBut never the offense. To bear all smooth But never the offense. To bear all smooth But since, so jump upon this bloody questioBut since, so jump upon this bloody questioBut you must know your father lost a fatBut you must know your father lost a fatBy laborsome petition, and at last 
Upon hiBy laborsome petition, and at last 
Upon hiCAPTAIN 
The nephew to old Norway, FortinCAPTAIN 
The nephew to old Norway, FortinCAPTAIN 
Yes, it is already garrisoned. CAPTAIN 
Yes, it is already garrisoned. CAPTAIN  Against some part of Poland. 
 
HAMCAPTAIN  Against some part of Poland. 
 
HAMCAPTAIN  I will do 't, my lord. 
 
FORTINBRAS  CAPTAIN  I will do 't, my lord. 
 
FORTINBRAS  CAPTAIN  God be wi' you, sir.	[He exits.] 
 
CAPTAIN  God be wi' you, sir.	[He exits.] 
 
  CORNELIUS 
  ROSENCRANTZ 
  GUILDENSTERN   CORNELIUS 
  ROSENCRANTZ 
  GUILDENSTERN CAPTAIN  They are of Norway, sir. 
 
HAMLCAPTAIN  They are of Norway, sir. 
 
HAMLCORNELIUS/VOLTEMAND 
In that and all thiCORNELIUS/VOLTEMAND 
In that and all thi"Call him a-down-a."--O, how the wheel be"Call him a-down-a."--O, how the wheel beBy what it fed on. And yet, within a monthBy what it fed on. And yet, within a monthCome. [They play.] Another hit. What say yoCome. [They play.] Another hit. What say yoCome, for England.	[He exits.] 
 
KING 
Follow him aCome, for England.	[He exits.] 
 
KING 
Follow him aCan you advise me? 
 
LAERTES 
I am loCan you advise me? 
 
LAERTES 
I am loDid not together pluck such eDid not together pluck such e[Drum, trumpets[Drum, trumpets[Enter[Enter[Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, a[Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, aExtorted treasure in the womb of earth, 
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth, 
FORTINBRAS  Go softly on.FORTINBRAS  Go softly on.FRANCISCO 
I think I hear them.--Stand ho! WFRANCISCO 
I think I hear them.--Stand ho! WAnd that in Hamlet's hearing, for a qualAnd that in Hamlet's hearing, for a qualCharacters in the Play 
==================Characters in the Play 
==================Christian Christian Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver brokClamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver brokColleagued with this dream of his advantaColleagued with this dream of his advantaCaps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the cloudsCaps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the cloudsChristian burial. 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  How can that Christian burial. 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  How can that Collected from all simples that have virtue 
Collected from all simples that have virtue 
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest frCome, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest frCome, for the third, Laertes. You do buCome, for the third, Laertes. You do buCome, Hamlet, come and take this hand from mCome, Hamlet, come and take this hand from mComComCome short of what he did. 
 
LAERTES  A NoCome short of what he did. 
 
LAERTES  A NoCome, sir, to draw towarCome, sir, to draw towarCompounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kiCompounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kiConjures the wand'ring stars and makes thConjures the wand'ring stars and makes thConvert his gyves to graces, so that mConvert his gyves to graces, so that mConscience and grace, to the profoundesConscience and grace, to the profoundesCould not with all their quantity of love 
Make uCould not with all their quantity of love 
Make uCome, I will give you way for these your letCome, I will give you way for these your letCourtiers at the Danish court: 
  VOLTEMANCourtiers at the Danish court: 
  VOLTEMANCry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven toCry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven toDanish soldiersDanish soldiersCornelius.] 
 Cornelius.] 
 Couch we awhile and mark.	[They step asideCouch we awhile and mark.	[They step asideCreated on Jul 31, 2015, from FDT version Created on Jul 31, 2015, from FDT version Cries "cuckCries "cuckDear maDear maDeliberDeliberDeprived thee of!--Hold offDeprived thee of!--Hold offDid HamlDid HamlDid squeak and gibber in the Roman streets; 
As Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets; 
As DOCTOR 
Her obsequies have been as far enlargedDOCTOR 
Her obsequies have been as far enlargedEnglEnglDisasters in the sun; and the moist star, 
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star, 
[Enter [Enter Delay it not. I'll have him hence tonight. 
ADelay it not. I'll have him hence tonight. 
ADoctor of Divinity 
AttendanDoctor of Divinity 
AttendanDOCTOR  No more be done. 
We should profaDOCTOR  No more be done. 
We should profa[Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Lords attendant, a[Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Lords attendant, a[Enter a Messenger[Enter a MessengerFORTINBRAS, Prince of Norway 
A CaFORTINBRAS, Prince of Norway 
A CaFORTINBRAS 
Go,FORTINBRAS 
Go,FRANCISCO 
You come most carefully uponFRANCISCO 
You come most carefully uponFRANCFRANCFall ten times treble on that cursed head 
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head 
FareweFareweFollow him at foot; tempt him with speed Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed FordoFordoFor food and diet to some enterprise 
That For food and diet to some enterprise 
That 	For s	For sFRANCISCO 
Barnardo hath my place. Give yoFRANCISCO 
Barnardo hath my place. Give yoDid fDid fDid slay this FortinbDid slay this FortinbDies in his own too-much. ThatDies in his own too-much. ThatDoes Does Divided from herselDivided from herselDoes not divide the Sunday from Does not divide the Sunday from Do not forever with thy vailed lids 
Seek for thyDo not forever with thy vailed lids 
Seek for thyDoth make the night joint laborer with the daDoth make the night joint laborer with the daDo yoDo yoEdited by Barbara A. Mowat and Paul Werstine 
 Edited by Barbara A. Mowat and Paul Werstine 
 [Enter[Enter[Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Barnardo.] 
 
 
HOR[Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Barnardo.] 
 
 
HORDoth with his lofty and shrill-soundDoth with his lofty and shrill-sound[Enter Fortinbras with his army over the [Enter Fortinbras with his army over the [Ente[Ente[Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.] 
 [Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.] 
 [Enter Ki[Enter Ki[Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and [Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Drum, Drum, Eats not the flats with more impiteous Eats not the flats with more impiteous [Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.] 
 
[Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.] 
 
[Enter King and two[Enter King and two[Enter Osric, a courtier.] 
[Enter Osric, a courtier.] 
[Enter Fortinb[Enter Fortinb[Enter Ophelia distracted.] 
 
 
[Enter Ophelia distracted.] 
 
 
[Enter Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and ot[Enter Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and otEven Even [Enter Laertes with others. 
] 
 
LAERT[Enter Laertes with others. 
] 
 
LAERTFORTINFORTINFeeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouFeeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouFORTINBRAS  Where is this sight? 
 
HORATIFORTINBRAS  Where is this sight? 
 
HORATIEven Even Even while men'Even while men'Excitements of my reason and my bExcitements of my reason and my bExposing what is mortal and unsure 
To all that Exposing what is mortal and unsure 
To all that FORTINBRAS  Let four captains 
Bear Hamlet likFORTINBRAS  Let four captains 
Bear Hamlet lik  FRANCISCO 
  BARNARDO 
  MARCELLUS 
FORTINB  FRANCISCO 
  BARNARDO 
  MARCELLUS 
FORTINBFie on 't, ah fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden Fie on 't, ah fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide, Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide, 	For and 	For and [Enter Sailors.] 
 
 
SAILOR  God bless you[Enter Sailors.] 
 
 
SAILOR  God bless youFall'n on th' inventors' heads. AlFall'n on th' inventors' heads. Al[Francisco exits.] 
 
MARCELLUS  Holla[Francisco exits.] 
 
MARCELLUS  HollaGRAVEDIGGER  A pestilence on him for a mad GRAVEDIGGER  A pestilence on him for a mad [Forc[ForcGRAVEDIGGER  Ay, marry, is 't--crowner's 'quest lGRAVEDIGGER  Ay, marry, is 't--crowner's 'quest lGRAVEDIGGER  E'en that. 
 
HGRAVEDIGGER  E'en that. 
 
HGRAVEDIGGER  Faith,GRAVEDIGGER  Faith,GRAVEDIGGER  For none, neither. 
 
HAMLET GRAVEDIGGER  For none, neither. 
 
HAMLET [Enter Rosencrantz.] 
 
How now, what hath[Enter Rosencrantz.] 
 
How now, what hathFRANCISCO  Not a mouse stirring. 
 
BARNARFRANCISCO  Not a mouse stirring. 
 
BARNARFare you well, my dove. 
 
LAERTES 
Hadst thoFare you well, my dove. 
 
LAERTES 
Hadst tho[Flourish. Enter Claudius, King of Denmar[Flourish. Enter Claudius, King of DenmarFolger Shakespeare Library 
https://shFolger Shakespeare Library 
https://shFor bearers of this greeting to old NorFor bearers of this greeting to old NorFollow my mother.	[King dies.] 
 
LAERTES  HFollow my mother.	[King dies.] 
 
LAERTES  HFor goodness, growing to a pleurisy,For goodness, growing to a pleurisy,For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortuneFor me, with sorrow I embrace my fortuneFortinbras. 
 
HAMLET  How Fortinbras. 
 
HAMLET  How GRAVEDIGGER  How can tGRAVEDIGGER  How can tGRAVEDIGGER  It must be se offendendo; it canGRAVEDIGGER  It must be se offendendo; it canGRAVEDGRAVEDGRAVEDIGGER  Give me leave. Here lies thGRAVEDIGGER  Give me leave. Here lies thGRAVEDIGGER  Of all the days i' th' year, I GRAVEDIGGER  Of all the days i' th' year, I GRAVEDIGGER  One that was a woman, sir, bGRAVEDIGGER  One that was a woman, sir, bGRAVEDIGGER  'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill aGRAVEDIGGER  'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill aFORTINBRAS  Let us haste to hear it 
And cFORTINBRAS  Let us haste to hear it 
And c	For such a guest is meet. 
[He d	For such a guest is meet. 
[He dFor this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitFor this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitFor though I am not splenitive For though I am not splenitive For he was likely, had he been put on, 
For he was likely, had he been put on, 
For which, they say, you spirits oft For which, they say, you spirits oft GRAVEDIGGER  A whoreson mad fellow's it was. 
WhoGRAVEDIGGER  A whoreson mad fellow's it was. 
WhoGRAVEDIGGER  Ay, tell me that, and unyokeGRAVEDIGGER  Ay, tell me that, and unyokeFor like the hectic in my blood he rages, 
AndFor like the hectic in my blood he rages, 
AndGRAVEDIGGER  Cannot you tell that? Every foolGRAVEDIGGER  Cannot you tell that? Every foolGRAVEDIGGER  For no man, sir. 
 
HAMLET  WhGRAVEDIGGER  For no man, sir. 
 
HAMLET  WhGRAVEDIGGER  To 't. 
 
OTHER  Mass, I caGRAVEDIGGER  To 't. 
 
OTHER  Mass, I caGRAVEDIGGER  Why, because he was mad. He shaGRAVEDIGGER  Why, because he was mad. He shaGRAVEDIGGER  Why, here in Denmark. I have beenGRAVEDIGGER  Why, here in Denmark. I have beenGRAVEDIGGER  Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with GRAVEDIGGER  Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with GRAVEDIGGER  You lie out on 't, sir, and therefore GRAVEDIGGER  You lie out on 't, sir, and therefore GRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	But age with his sGRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	But age with his s  GUILDENSTERN 
  OSRIC 
  Gentlemen 
  A L  GUILDENSTERN 
  OSRIC 
  Gentlemen 
  A LFree me so far in your most generous thFree me so far in your most generous thGRAVEDIGGER  I like thy wit well, in good faith.GRAVEDIGGER  I like thy wit well, in good faith.GRAVEDIGGER  'Twill not be seen in him thereGRAVEDIGGER  'Twill not be seen in him thereGRAVEDIGGER  Very strangely, they say. 
 
HAGRAVEDIGGER  Very strangely, they say. 
 
HAGRAVEDIGGER  What is he that builds stronger tGRAVEDIGGER  What is he that builds stronger tGuildenstern and Attendants.] 
 
 
KINGuildenstern and Attendants.] 
 
 
KINHAMLET  Ay, marry, why was he sent into EnglandHAMLET  Ay, marry, why was he sent into EnglandHAMLET 
The poinHAMLET 
The poinHAMLET  Come on, sir. 
 
LAERTES  Come, mHAMLET  Come on, sir. 
 
LAERTES  Come, mGRAVEDIGGER  He was the first that evGRAVEDIGGER  He was the first that evGRAVEDIGGER  What, art a heathen? How dost GRAVEDIGGER  What, art a heathen? How dost GRAVEDIGGER  Why, there thou sayst. And theGRAVEDIGGER  Why, there thou sayst. And theGRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	A pickax and a spadGRAVEDIGGER [sings] 
	A pickax and a spadHAMLET 
O villainy! Ho! HAMLET 
O villainy! Ho! HAMLET  Is not parchment made oHAMLET  Is not parchment made oHAMLET  The phrase would be more germanHAMLET  The phrase would be more germanHORATIO 
And then it started like a guilty tHORATIO 
And then it started like a guilty tHAMLET  There's another. Why mHAMLET  There's another. Why mHAMLET  One. 
 
LAERTES HAMLET  One. 
 
LAERTES HAMLET  They are sheep and calves whiHAMLET  They are sheep and calves whiHAMLET  Thou pray'st not well.	[They grapple.]HAMLET  Thou pray'st not well.	[They grapple.]HAMLET  To this effHAMLET  To this effHAMLET  Whose was it? 
 
GRAVEHAMLET  Whose was it? 
 
GRAVEHAMLET  Why, e'en so. And now my Lady WormHAMLET  Why, e'en so. And now my Lady WormHAMLET, [advancing] 
WHAMLET, [advancing] 
WHORATIO  Not a jot more, my lord.HORATIO  Not a jot more, my lord.Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears 
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears 
[Ghost exits.] 
 
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone. [Ghost exits.] 
 
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone. Give him the cup. 
 
HAMLET 
I'll playGive him the cup. 
 
HAMLET 
I'll playGive me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll haGive me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll haGive me your pardon, sir. Give me your pardon, sir. Give us the foiGive us the foiGiving to you no further personal poweGiving to you no further personal poweGravedigger 
GGravedigger 
GHAMLET  How long will a man lie i' th' earHAMLET  How long will a man lie i' th' earHAMLET  It is but foolery, but it is such a kiHAMLET  It is but foolery, but it is such a kiHAMLET HAMLET HAMLET 
Heaven make thHAMLET 
Heaven make thHAMLETHAMLETHAMLET 
How does the Queen? 
 
KING  SheHAMLET 
How does the Queen? 
 
KING  SheHAMLET  How long is that since? 
 
GRAVEDIGGHAMLET  How long is that since? 
 
GRAVEDIGGHAMLET  I do not think so. Since he went inHAMLET  I do not think so. Since he went inHAMLET HAMLET HAMLET  I think it be thine indeed, fHAMLET  I think it be thine indeed, fHAMLET  Judgment! 
 
OSRIC  A hit, a very HAMLET  Judgment! 
 
OSRIC  A hit, a very HAMLET  Nay, I know not. 
 
GRAVEDIGGERHAMLET  Nay, I know not. 
 
GRAVEDIGGERHAMLET  I am constant to my purposes. TheyHAMLET  I am constant to my purposes. TheyHAMLET  Nay, come again. 
[The Queen fallsHAMLET  Nay, come again. 
[The Queen fallsHAMLET  O, I die, HorHAMLET  O, I die, HorHAMLET  Why? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  'TwiHAMLET  Why? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  'TwiHAMLET  That skull had a tongue HAMLET  That skull had a tongue HAMLET  'Tis e'en so. The hand of liHAMLET  'Tis e'en so. The hand of liHAMLET  Yours. [Osric exits.] He does well to HAMLET  Yours. [Osric exits.] He does well to HAMLET  Why he more than another? 
 
GRAVEDIHAMLET  Why he more than another? 
 
GRAVEDIHAMLET, [to Horatio]  What, the fair OpheliHAMLET, [to Horatio]  What, the fair OpheliHORATIO 
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear. 
 HORATIO 
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear. 
 HORATIO  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, e'HORATIO  Ay, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Why, e'HORATIO  Custom hath made it in him a prHORATIO  Custom hath made it in him a prHORATIO  Friends to this ground. 
 
MARCELLUHORATIO  Friends to this ground. 
 
MARCELLUHORATIHORATIHORATIO  It might, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Or ofHORATIO  It might, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  Or ofHORATIO, Hamlet's friend and confidant 
Courtiers HORATIO, Hamlet's friend and confidant 
Courtiers HORATIO  Never believe it. 
I am more an antiquHORATIO  Never believe it. 
I am more an antiquHORATIO  Nay,HORATIO  Nay,HORATIO  This lapwing runs away with the HORATIO  This lapwing runs away with the HORATIO  Well, sit we down, 
And let us HORATIO  Well, sit we down, 
And let us HORATIO  You will lose, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  I doHORATIO  You will lose, my lord. 
 
HAMLET  I doHe hath not failed to pester us wHe hath not failed to pester us wHamlet, returned, shall know you Hamlet, returned, shall know you 	Hath	HathHave heaven and Earth together demonstHave heaven and Earth together demonst[He digs up a skull.] 
 
HAMLET  [He digs up a skull.] 
 
HAMLET  Here, Hamlet, take my napkin; rubHere, Hamlet, take my napkin; rubHamletHamletHere, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned DaneHere, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned DaneHe swore had neither motion, guard, He swore had neither motion, guard, Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy 
And will noHoratio says 'tis but our fantasy 
And will noHow does the QHow does the QI am I am I am justly killed with mine own treachI am justly killed with mine own treachI cannot live to hear the newsI cannot live to hear the newsHAMLET  Not a whit.HAMLET  Not a whit.HAMLET 
This likHAMLET 
This likHAMLET 
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine HAMLET 
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine HAMLET 
I dare not drink yet, madam--by and by.HAMLET 
I dare not drink yet, madam--by and by.HAMLET  Good madam. 
 
KING  Gertrude, do HAMLET  Good madam. 
 
KING  Gertrude, do HAMLET  This? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  E'en that. 
 HAMLET  This? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  E'en that. 
 HAMLET  Thou dost lie in 't, to be in 't and HAMLET  Thou dost lie in 't, to be in 't and HAMLET  Upon what ground? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  WhHAMLET  Upon what ground? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  WhHAMLET  What man dost thou dig it for? 
 
GRAHAMLET  What man dost thou dig it for? 
 
GRAHAMLET  How came he mad? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  VeryHAMLET  How came he mad? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  VeryHAMLET  What woman then? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  FHAMLET  What woman then? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  FHAMLET, [to Laertes] 
Give me your pardon, HAMLET, [to Laertes] 
Give me your pardon, HORATIO 
Now cracks a noble heart. Good niHORATIO 
Now cracks a noble heart. Good niHORATIO 
So have I heard and do in part beHORATIO 
So have I heard and do in part beHORATIO 
What, has this thing appeared again toHORATIO 
What, has this thing appeared again toHORATIO  'Tis here. 
[Ghost exits.] 
 
MAHORATIO  'Tis here. 
[Ghost exits.] 
 
MAHAMLET, Prince of Denmark, son of the HAMLET, Prince of Denmark, son of the HORATIO  What is it you would see? 
If aughHORATIO  What is it you would see? 
If aughHamleHamleHath in the skirts of Norway here and there Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there [He pu[He puHere was a gentleman of Normandy. 
IHere was a gentleman of Normandy. 
IHis fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young ForHis fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young ForHer maiden strewments, and the bringing hHer maiden strewments, and the bringing hIf Hamlet from himself be ta'en awaIf Hamlet from himself be ta'en awaHad witchcraft in 't. He grew unto his seat, Had witchcraft in 't. He grew unto his seat, Hamlet. 
These to your Majesty, this tHamlet. 
These to your Majesty, this tHer obsequies have been as far enlarged Her obsequies have been as far enlarged I am afeard you make a wanton of meI am afeard you make a wanton of meI do receive your offered love like loI do receive your offered love like loHis madness is poor Hamlet's enemy. 
SHis madness is poor Hamlet's enemy. 
SIf Hamlet give the first or second hit 
Or If Hamlet give the first or second hit 
Or If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.If not, I will gain nothing but my shame If not, I will gain nothing but my shame If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart, 
AbsIf thou didst ever hold me in thy heart, 
AbsI have a voice and precedent of peace 
I have a voice and precedent of peace 
HAMLET  That is Laertes, a very noble youth.HAMLET  That is Laertes, a very noble youth.HAMLET  And smelt so? PHAMLET  And smelt so? PHAMLET  How absolute the knave is! We mustHAMLET  How absolute the knave is! We mustHAMLET  I embrace it freely 
And will thHAMLET  I embrace it freely 
And will thHAMLET  How "strangely"? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  FHAMLET  How "strangely"? 
 
GRAVEDIGGER  FHAMLET  No, by this hand. 
 
KING 
GivHAMLET  No, by this hand. 
 
KING 
GivHAMLET  No, faith, not a jot; but to follow HAMLET  No, faith, not a jot; but to follow HAMLET  Who is to be buried in 'HAMLET  Who is to be buried in 'HAMLET, [taking the skull]  Let me see. AlHAMLET, [taking the skull]  Let me see. AlHORATIO  A piece of him. HORATIO  A piece of him. HORATIO  What's that, mHORATIO  What's that, mHamletHamlet[He digs up more skulls.] 
 
HAMLET  Th[He digs up more skulls.] 
 
HAMLET  ThHe never gave commandment for their death.He never gave commandment for their death.High on a stage be placed to the view, 
And letHigh on a stage be placed to the view, 
And letHow these things came about. So shall yoHow these things came about. So shall yoIf you do meet Horatio and Marcellus, 
The rivalsIf you do meet Horatio and Marcellus, 
The rivalsI had not coted him. I feared he did I had not coted him. I feared he did I'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine iI'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine iHAMLET  Dost thou think Alexander looked o' thiHAMLET  Dost thou think Alexander looked o' thiHAMLET  To what base uses we may return, HoratHAMLET  To what base uses we may return, HoratHORATIO 
Of that I shall have also causeHORATIO 
Of that I shall have also causeHORATIO 
A mote it is to trouble the mind's HORATIO 
A mote it is to trouble the mind's HORATIO  Do, if it will not stand. 
HORATIO  Do, if it will not stand. 
HORATIO  E'en so. 
 
HAMLET  And smeHORATIO  E'en so. 
 
HAMLET  And smeHave we (as 'twere with a defeated joy, 
WiHave we (as 'twere with a defeated joy, 
WiHAMLET  Very well, my lord. 
Your GraceHAMLET  Very well, my lord. 
Your GraceHORATIO  'Twere to consider tHORATIO  'Twere to consider tHath Hath [He drinks and then drops the pearl in the [He drinks and then drops the pearl in the Here's to thy health. 
[He drinks and then drHere's to thy health. 
[He drinks and then drHis access to me. 
 
POLONHis access to me. 
 
POLONHORATIHORATII dare not drink yet, madam--by aI dare not drink yet, madam--by aI have some rI have some rI'll play this bout first. Set it bI'll play this bout first. Set it bIn theIn theAnd stand a comma 'tween their amities, 
And manyAnd stand a comma 'tween their amities, 
And manyFingered their packet, and in fine withdreFingered their packet, and in fine withdreFollow her close; give her good watch, I prayFollow her close; give her good watch, I prayFor England. 
 
HAMLET  For England? 
 For England. 
 
HAMLET  For England? 
 For good Polonius' death, and we have For good Polonius' death, and we have (For so this side of our known world esteemed h(For so this side of our known world esteemed hFor that which thou hast done) must send thFor that which thou hast done) must send thFor they are actions that a man might play; 
For they are actions that a man might play; 
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer 
HoFor 'tis the sport to have the enginer 
Ho[Flourish. All but Hamlet exit[Flourish. All but Hamlet exitFor what we know must be and is as commonFor what we know must be and is as commonFriends both, go join you with some furthFriends both, go join you with some furth	   From another one? 
	By his cockle hat and s	   From another one? 
	By his cockle hat and sFolded the writ up in the form of th' otheFolded the writ up in the form of th' otheFrom the first corse till he that died todayFrom the first corse till he that died todayFrom whence though From whence though GENTLEMAN  Seafaring men, sir. They say GENTLEMAN  Seafaring men, sir. They say GertrGertr[Ghos[GhosGives mGives m	God 'a	God 'aGood Gertrude, set some watch over your sonGood Gertrude, set some watch over your sonGood Hamlet, cGood Hamlet, cFor For Good gentlemen, he hath much talked of you, 
And surGood gentlemen, he hath much talked of you, 
And surGood night, mother. 
[They exit, Hamlet tugging Good night, mother. 
[They exit, Hamlet tugging Good now, sit downGood now, sit downHAMLEHAMLE	   Go to thy deathbed. 
	He never will	   Go to thy deathbed. 
	He never willHAMLET 
I loved Ophelia. Forty thousHAMLET 
I loved Ophelia. Forty thousHAMLET 
I am very glad to see you. [To BarnaHAMLET 
I am very glad to see you. [To BarnaHAMLET 
Here's the commission. Read itHAMLET 
Here's the commission. Read itHAMLEHAMLEHAMLET 
"Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I knoHAMLET 
"Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I knoHAMLET 
It will be short. The interim's miHAMLET 
It will be short. The interim's miHAMLET 
He was a man. Take him for all iHAMLET 
He was a man. Take him for all iHAMLET 
There's letters sealed; and my two HAMLET 
There's letters sealed; and my two HAMLET 
I would not hear your enemy sayHAMLET 
I would not hear your enemy sayHAMLET 
Ay, madam, it isHAMLET 
Ay, madam, it isHAMLET 
An earnest HAMLET 
An earnest HAMLET 
I prithee, do not mock me, fellow HAMLET 
I prithee, do not mock me, fellow HAMLET 
Why, even in that was heaven orHAMLET 
Why, even in that was heaven orHAMLET  Do not believe it. 
 
ROSENCHAMLET  Do not believe it. 
 
ROSENCHAMLET  I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleHAMLET  I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleHAMLET  No, believe me, 'tis very cold;HAMLET  No, believe me, 'tis very cold;HAMLET 
Does it not, think thee, stand me now upon--HAMLET 
Does it not, think thee, stand me now upon--HAMLET  For God's love, let me hear! 
 
HORATHAMLET  For God's love, let me hear! 
 
HORATHAMLET  Hear you, sir, 
What is the reasonHAMLET  Hear you, sir, 
What is the reasonHAMLET  Ay, sir, that soaks up the KinHAMLET  Ay, sir, that soaks up the KinHAMLET  I will receive it, sir, with aHAMLET  I will receive it, sir, with aHAMLET  I would you did, sir. Yet, in faithHAMLET  I would you did, sir. Yet, in faithHAMLEHAMLEHAMLET 
Why, man, they did make love tHAMLET 
Why, man, they did make love tHAMLET 
Not so, my lord; I am too much inHAMLET 
Not so, my lord; I am too much inHAMLET  A man may fish with theHAMLET  A man may fish with theHAMLET  At supper. 
 
KING  At supper where? HAMLET  At supper. 
 
KING  At supper where? HAMLET  But yet methinks it HAMLET  But yet methinks it HAMLET  I am glad to see you well. 
HoratioHAMLET  I am glad to see you well. 
HoratioHAMLET  I beseech you, remember. [He motions tHAMLET  I beseech you, remember. [He motions tHAMLET  I dare not confess that, lest HAMLET  I dare not confess that, lest HAMLET  I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to HoraHAMLET  I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to HoraHAMLET  Safely stowed. 
 
GENTLEMEN, HAMLET  Safely stowed. 
 
GENTLEMEN, HAMLET  'Swounds, show me what thou 't do. 
Woo'HAMLET  'Swounds, show me what thou 't do. 
Woo'HAMLET  The body is with the King, butHAMLET  The body is with the King, butHAMLET  That I can keep your counsel and not mineHAMLET  That I can keep your counsel and not mineHAMLET  That's two of his weapons. But, well-- HAMLET  That's two of his weapons. But, well-- HAMLET  The King my father? 
 
HORATIO 
SeaHAMLET  The King my father? 
 
HORATIO 
SeaHAMLET  The concernancy, sir? Why doHAMLET  The concernancy, sir? Why doHAMLET  What call you the "carriages"? 
 
HORATIHAMLET  What call you the "carriages"? 
 
HORATIHAMLET  What's his weapon? 
 
OSRIC  RapiHAMLET  What's his weapon? 
 
OSRIC  RapiHAMLET, [aside to Horatio]  THAMLET, [aside to Horatio]  THAMLET, [to Osric]  What imports the nomHAMLET, [to Osric]  What imports the nomHORATIO 
The same, my lord, and youHORATIO 
The same, my lord, and youHORATIO 
Stay! speak! speak! I charge thee, speHORATIO 
Stay! speak! speak! I charge thee, speHAMLET  Not where he eats, but where he HAMLET  Not where he eats, but where he HORATIO 
In what particular thought toHORATIO 
In what particular thought toHORATIO 
It HORATIO 
It HAMLET,HAMLET,HORATIOHORATIOHORATIO 
So GuiHORATIO 
So GuiHORATIO  Is 't not posHORATIO  Is 't not posHORATIO  Let Him bless thee too. 
 
SAILOHORATIO  Let Him bless thee too. 
 
SAILOHORATIO 
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight. 
HORATIO 
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight. 
HORATIO 
Before myHORATIO 
Before myHORATIO 
A truant disposition, good my lord. 
HORATIO 
A truant disposition, good my lord. 
HORATIO  GoHORATIO  GoHORATIO  I knew you must be edified by the margeHORATIO  I knew you must be edified by the margeHORATIHORATIHORATIO 
My lord, I came to see your fatheHORATIO 
My lord, I came to see your fatheHORATIO [reHORATIO [reHamlet. 
Come, I will give you way for these yHamlet. 
Come, I will give you way for these y[Hamlet exits.] 
 
KING 
I[Hamlet exits.] 
 
KING 
IHamlet in madness hath PolHamlet in madness hath PolHORATIO  His purse is emptHORATIO  His purse is emptHORATIO  Why, what a king is this! 
 
HAMLET 
DoeHORATIO  Why, what a king is this! 
 
HAMLET 
DoeHadst thou thy wits and didst persuade revengeHadst thou thy wits and didst persuade revengeHamlet, 
To give these mourning duties to your fHamlet, 
To give these mourning duties to your fHORATIO 
What art thou that usurp'st this time HORATIO 
What art thou that usurp'st this time [Hamlet and Laertes are separated.] 
 
HAMLET 
Why, I [Hamlet and Laertes are separated.] 
 
HAMLET 
Why, I HORATIO  As thou art to thyself. 
Such was the very arHORATIO  As thou art to thyself. 
Such was the very arHath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave 
By laboHath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave 
By laboHe answers: 
	"So would I 'a done, by yonder sun, 
	 He answers: 
	"So would I 'a done, by yonder sun, 
	 HORATIO, [aside to Hamlet]  No, my good lord. 
 
HORATIO, [aside to Hamlet]  No, my good lord. 
 
He should those bearers put to sudden death, 
Not He should those bearers put to sudden death, 
Not He's loved of the dHe's loved of the d	   He is dead and gone; 
	At his head a gr	   He is dead and gone; 
	At his head a gr	He never will come again. 
 
	His beard was as white	He never will come again. 
 
	His beard was as white	Hey non non	Hey non nonHer brother is in secret come from France, 
FeedHer brother is in secret come from France, 
FeedHere in the cheer and comfort of ouHere in the cheer and comfort of ouHere's the commission. Read it at more leisure. 
[HandHere's the commission. Read it at more leisure. 
[HandHe was a man. Take him for all in alHe was a man. Take him for all in alHis liberty is full of threats toHis liberty is full of threats toHe smote the sledded Polacks on the ice. 
'Tis strHe smote the sledded Polacks on the ice. 
'Tis strHoist withHoist with[Horatio exi[Horatio exi[Horati[HoratiHoratioHoratioHow came he dead? I'll not be How came he dead? I'll not be How How His means of death, his obscure funeral 
(No His means of death, his obscure funeral 
(No His silence will sit drooping. 
 
HAMLET  HeaHis silence will sit drooping. 
 
HAMLET  HeaHow dangerous is it that this man goes looHow dangerous is it that this man goes looI am very glad to see you. [To BarnardoI am very glad to see you. [To BarnardoI dare damnation. To this point I stand, 
That I dare damnation. To this point I stand, 
That I cannot dream of. I entreat you both 
That, being of I cannot dream of. I entreat you both 
That, being of I do beseech you give him leave to go. 
 
KING 
TakI do beseech you give him leave to go. 
 
KING 
TakIf by direct or by collateral hand 
ThIf by direct or by collateral hand 
ThIf you desire to know the certainty 
Of yoIf you desire to know the certainty 
Of yoI had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.How is it thatHow is it thatI have sent to seek I have sent to seek I loved Ophelia. Forty thousI loved Ophelia. Forty thousIndeed, my Indeed, my I have sent, and repair thou to me with aI have sent, and repair thou to me with aI'll do 't. Dost thou cI'll do 't. Dost thou cI must to England, youI must to England, youIn ear and In ear and Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this. 
[RosInto the chapel. I pray you, haste in this. 
[RosIn fIn fI saw him once. He wI saw him once. He wI shall not look upon his like agaiI shall not look upon his like agaiIt did me yeoman's servicIt did me yeoman's servicIn obstinate condolement is a courseIn obstinate condolement is a courseIn the same figureIn the same figureIn filial obligation fIn filial obligation fI once did hold it, as our statists do, 
A basenessI once did hold it, as our statists do, 
A basenessI pray you, go with me. 
[They exit.] 
 
Scene 6I pray you, go with me. 
[They exit.] 
 
Scene 6I pray you pass with your best violence. 
I am aI pray you pass with your best violence. 
I am aI prithee, do not mock me, fellow student. 
I think itI prithee, do not mock me, fellow student. 
I think itI stand aloof and will no reconcilement 
Till by sI stand aloof and will no reconcilement 
Till by sI pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him. 
[HoratiI pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him. 
[HoratiI think I hear I think I hear KING 
Come, HamleKING 
Come, HamleIt had been so with us, had we been there. 
His liIt had been so with us, had we been there. 
His liIt could not move thus. 
 
OPHELIA  You must sing "It could not move thus. 
 
OPHELIA  You must sing "It isIt isIs strict in his arrest), O, I couIs strict in his arrest), O, I couIt is most retrograde to our desire, 
And we beseecIt is most retrograde to our desire, 
And we beseecIt shall as level to your judgment 'peIt shall as level to your judgment 'peIt sends some precious iIt sends some precious iIt will be short. The interim's mine, 
And a man's life'sIt will be short. The interim's mine, 
And a man's life'sIt shows a will most incorrect to heaven,It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,It would be spoke to. 
 
MARCELLUS  Speak to it,It would be spoke to. 
 
MARCELLUS  Speak to it,I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.	[She drinksI will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.	[She drinksI thank you. Keep the doorI thank you. Keep the doorIt must be shortly known to him from EnglanIt must be shortly known to him from EnglanKING 
Now must your conscience my acquittance seal, 
AKING 
Now must your conscience my acquittance seal, 
AKINGKINGKING 
O, yet defend me, friends! I am but huKING 
O, yet defend me, friends! I am but huKING 
Give them the foils, young Osric. KING 
Give them the foils, young Osric. KING 
Set me the stoups of wine upon that tabKING 
Set me the stoups of wine upon that tabKING KING KING 
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature,KING 
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature,KING 
Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time KING 
Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time KING 
Have you your father's leave? What saKING 
Have you your father's leave? What saKING 
How isKING 
How isKING 
Laertes, I musKING 
Laertes, I musKING 
I pray theeKING 
I pray theeKING 
Bring hKING 
Bring hKINGKINGKING  How do you, pretty lady? 
 
OPHELKING  How do you, pretty lady? 
 
OPHELKING  KING  KING  Pretty Ophelia-- 
 
OPHELIA 
Indeed, wKING  Pretty Ophelia-- 
 
OPHELIA 
Indeed, wKING 
FoKING 
FoKING  At supper where?KING  At supper where?KING  Conceit upon her father. 
KING  Conceit upon her father. 
KING  KING  KING  Gertrude, do not drink. 
 
QUEEN 
I wilKING  Gertrude, do not drink. 
 
QUEEN 
I wilKING  How long hath she been thus? 
 
OPHELIA  KING  How long hath she been thus? 
 
OPHELIA  KING  I do not think 't. 
 
LAKING  I do not think 't. 
 
LAKINGKINGKING  Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius? 
 
HAMLET  KING  Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius? 
 
HAMLET  KING  O Gertrude, come away! 
The sun no sKING  O Gertrude, come away! 
The sun no sKING  O heavy deed! 
It had been so witKING  O heavy deed! 
It had been so witKING  Part them. They are incensed. 
 
HAMLET  Nay, KING  Part them. They are incensed. 
 
HAMLET  Nay, KING  She swoons to see KING  She swoons to see KING  So you shall, 
And where th' offense isKING  So you shall, 
And where th' offense isKING  The doors are broke. 
 
[Enter Laertes wiKING  The doors are broke. 
 
[Enter Laertes wiKING  What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet? 
 KING  What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet? 
 By letters congruing to that effect, 
ThBy letters congruing to that effect, 
ThGENTLEMAN 
She speaks much of her father, sayGENTLEMAN 
She speaks much of her father, sayGo, Captain, from me greet the Danish king. 
Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king. 
GENTLEMAN  She is importunate, 
IndeGENTLEMAN  She is importunate, 
IndeGoes it against the main of Poland, sir, 
OrGoes it against the main of Poland, sir, 
OrGo to their graves like beds, fight for aGo to their graves like beds, fight for aGroped I to find out them; had my desire, 
FiGroped I to find out them; had my desire, 
FiHAMLET 
Why, then, the Polack never will dHAMLET 
Why, then, the Polack never will dHAMLET 
GoeHAMLET 
GoeHAMLET HAMLET HAMLET HAMLET HAMLET 
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand dHAMLET 
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand dHAMLET  GoHAMLET  GoHAMLET  How purposed, sir, I pray you? 
 
CHAMLET  How purposed, sir, I pray you? 
 
CHAMLET  Up from my cabin, 
My sea-gown HAMLET  Up from my cabin, 
My sea-gown HORATIO  That is most 
certain. 
 
HAMLETHORATIO  That is most 
certain. 
 
HAMLETHAMLET 
So much for this, sir. Now shall yHAMLET 
So much for this, sir. Now shall yHAMLET  Who commands them, sir? 
 
CAPTAHAMLET  Who commands them, sir? 
 
CAPTA[He exits.] 
 
Scene 4 
======= 
[Ent[He exits.] 
 
Scene 4 
======= 
[EntHis canon 'gainst seHis canon 'gainst seHAMLET  For England? 
 
KING  AHAMLET  For England? 
 
KING  AHAMLET 
I shall in all my best obey you, madam. 
 
KIHAMLET 
I shall in all my best obey you, madam. 
 
KIHad left the flushing in her galled eyes, 
She marriedHad left the flushing in her galled eyes, 
She marriedI see a cherub that sees them. But come, I see a cherub that sees them. But come, HORATIO  Remember it, my lord! 
 HORATIO  Remember it, my lord! 
 How all occasions do inform against meHow all occasions do inform against meIt is not, nor it cannot come to goodIt is not, nor it cannot come to goodHow weary, stale, flat, and unpHow weary, stale, flat, and unpIt spilIt spilKING 
Follow him at foot; tempt him wKING 
Follow him at foot; tempt him wKING 
KING 
HAMLET  He will stay till you come.	[AttHAMLET  He will stay till you come.	[AttKING  Thy loving fathKING  Thy loving fathKING, [KING, [KING  Where is Polonius? 
 
HAMLET  IKING  Where is Polonius? 
 
HAMLET  IKing. They have letters for him. Ere wKing. They have letters for him. Ere wLAERTES 
This is too heavy. Let me see LAERTES 
This is too heavy. Let me see Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety 
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety 
If his chief good and market of his timIf his chief good and market of his timImporting Denmark's health and England'sImporting Denmark's health and England'sKING 
KING 
KING, [aside] 
It is the poisoned cup. It iKING, [aside] 
It is the poisoned cup. It iLAERTESLAERTESLAERTES 
A touch, a touch. I dLAERTES 
A touch, a touch. I d(Let m(Let mLooking before and after, gave us not 
That cLooking before and after, gave us not 
That cLordship would vouchsafe the answer. 
 
HAMLordship would vouchsafe the answer. 
 
HAMMARCELLUS, [to Horatio] 
Thou art a scholar. SpMARCELLUS, [to Horatio] 
Thou art a scholar. SpKing hold his purpose, I will win for him, anKing hold his purpose, I will win for him, anLAERTES  C